The Project Gutenberg eBook of Dogs of all nations, by W. E. Mason

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Dogs of all nations

Author: W. E. Mason

Release Date: September 1, 2022 [eBook #68890]

Language: English

Produced by: Richard Tonsing and the Online Distributed Proofreading
             Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from
             images generously made available by The Internet Archive)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DOGS OF ALL NATIONS ***





 PATRONS ARE INFORMED THAT GREAT CARE HAS BEEN EXERCISED IN ASSEMBLING
 THE SPECIMENS COMPRISING THE “DOGS OF ALL NATIONS” EXHIBIT AND MOST OF
                         THEM MAY BE PURCHASED.

                          APPLY TO PROPRIETOR,
                  W. E. MASON, “DOGS OF ALL NATIONS,”
                PANAMA-PACIFIC INTERNATIONAL EXPOSITION,
                          SAN FRANCISCO, CAL.

                            EUROPEAN OFFICE—
                    407 LORD STREET, SOUTHPORT, ENG.




                                  DOGS
                                 OF ALL
                                NATIONS


                            _By W. E. MASON_

[Illustration]

A COMPLETE WORK, PROFUSELY ILLUSTRATED, BEARING ON THE WORLD’S DIFFERENT
VARIETIES OF THE DOG, GROUPED UNDER THEIR SEVERAL NATIONALITIES, WITH
DESCRIPTIVE MATTER EXPLAINING THE CHARACTERISTICS AND UTILITY OF
EACH ❧ ❧ ❧ ❧ ❧ ❧




                         In Grateful Recognition

   of the patronage bestowed on his effort to assemble a representative
                collection of all known breeds of dogs at

             The Panama-Pacific International Exposition 1915

 the author respectfully dedicates this work to the following members of

                           The English Peerage


              The Earl of Lonsdale, J. P., D. L.
              The Earl of Huntington, D. L.
              The Duke of Beaufort, A. D. C., J. P., D. L.
              The Marquis of Linlithgow.
              Lord Viscount Hemsley.
              Lord Vivian, P. C., G. C. M. G., C. B.
              Lord Middleton, J. P., C. A., R. A.
              Lord Herbert Vane-Tempest, K. C. V. O.
              Lord Fitzhardinge, J. P., D. L.
              Sir Wm. Savory, Bart.
              Sir Edmund Chaytor, Bart.
              Sir Wyndham Hanmer, Bart., J. P., D. L.
              Sir Daniel F. Gooch, Bart., J. P.
              Sir M. Bromley-Wilson, Bart.
              The Duchess of Hamilton.
              Lady Viscountess Malden.
              Lady Viscountess Valletort.
              Lady Sophie Scott.
              Lady Fairbairn.
              Lady Muriel Worthington.
              Lady V. Lacon.

[Illustration]




                                Preface


The world-wide and constantly increasing interest in dogs prompts the
author to present in concise form, and at a price within the reach of
all, a description and illustration of every variety now known to be
breeding true to type.

An attempt is also made to group them in Nationalities, though, since it
is admitted that the origin of certain varieties is somewhat obscure, no
arbitrary lines can be laid down in this respect. Originality as to
descriptions is not, in many instances, claimed by the author, though
where the occasion seemed to call for it, modern ideals have been
incorporated in the text. On the contrary, he acknowledges with thanks
the services rendered by the following accepted authorities:

                    Stonehenge
                    Count Henry A. Graaf Van Bylandt
                    Theo. Marples
                    Dr. Caius

Unless otherwise stated, the maximum sizes of the various breeds have
been given. Bitches may be taken as about ten per cent lighter than the
dogs. Owing to the exigencies of space the descriptions have been
confined to color, size, head, ears, eye, tail and general appearance.
Dogs, all the world over, more or less, are intended to be straight and
strong on the legs, possessed of well padded feet and in other ways
endowed with working qualifications.

The author’s object will have been attained if the subject, in the form
presented, is found acceptable to dog lovers who have not the leisure to
study the more exhaustive works on dogs.




                             English Breeds


                   BLOODHOUND
                   BULLDOG
                   BULLDOG (Miniature)
                   ENGLISH FOXHOUND
                   TRAIL HOUND
                   HARRIER
                   BEAGLE
                   COLLIE (Rough-coated)
                   COLLIE (Smooth-coated)
                   RETRIEVER (Flat-coated)
                   RETRIEVER (Curly-coated)
                   RETRIEVER (Golden)
                   POINTER
                   ENGLISH SETTER
                   ENGLISH SPRINGER
                   SUSSEX SPANIEL
                   CLUMBER SPANIEL
                   WATER SPANIEL
                   FIELD SPANIEL
                   COCKER SPANIEL
                   FOX TERRIER (Smooth-coated)
                   FOX TERRIER (Wire-haired)
                   ENGLISH GREYHOUND
                   WHIPPET
                   BULL TERRIER
                   BULL TERRIER (Miniature)
                   AIREDALE TERRIER
                   BEDLINGTON TERRIER
                   MANCHESTER TERRIER
                   MANCHESTER TERRIER (Miniature)
                   MASTIFF
                   WHITE ENGLISH TERRIER
                   WHITE ENGLISH TERRIER (Miniature)
                   OLD ENGLISH SHEEPDOG
                   OTTERHOUND
                   YORKSHIRE TERRIER
                   TOY SPANIEL (King Charles)
                   TOY SPANIEL (Prince Charles)
                   TOY SPANIEL (Ruby)
                   TOY SPANIEL (Blenheim)


[Illustration]

                               BLOODHOUND

Color: Black and tan, red and tan, and tawny; the darker colors being
sometimes interspersed with lighter or badger-colored hair and sometimes
flecked with white. Too much white is objectionable.

Height: 26 in.

Weight: 90 lbs.

The Bloodhound possesses in remarkable degree every point and
characteristic of those dogs which hunt together by scent. He is very
powerful and stands over more ground than is usual with hounds of other
breeds. The skin is thin to the touch, and extremely loose, this being
more especially noticeable about the head and neck, where it hangs in
deep folds. His temperament is extremely affectionate, neither
quarrelsome with companions nor with other dogs, and he is somewhat shy
and sensitive.


[Illustration]

                                BULLDOG

Color: White or white with black mask or muzzle, brindle, red, fawns
(fallows, occasionally pied and mixed colors).

Weight: A. exceeding 55 lbs.; B. exceeding 45 lbs.; C. not exceeding 45
lbs.

Until by law abolished, the Bulldog was used for bull baiting. In
general appearance the bulldog should be a low-set, heavy-boned,
smooth-coated dog built on broad and powerful lines. His head should be
strikingly massive and large in proportion to the dog’s size, the face
extremely short, muzzle very broad, blunt and inclined upwards, body
short and well knit, the limbs stout and muscular, hind quarters very
high and strong, but rather lightly made in comparison with its heavily
made foreparts. The dog conveys an impression of determination, strength
and activity.

The Bulldog may be said to occupy the pride of place amongst the
non-sporting varieties. Furthermore, it is one of the oldest of them and
has been selected by the British themselves to typify the national
character and is often termed the national breed. Certain it is that he
conveys a “what we have we’ll hold” impression, and for a dogged,
determined, courageous and tenacious symbol one could not imagine any
breed filling the role more aptly.


                          BULLDOG (Miniature)

Weight: Not exceeding 22 lbs.

The points and characteristics of this sub-division of the British
bulldog may be summed up in the simple statement that it should be an
exact duplicate in miniature of the larger specimen in every point and
detail, excepting size.


[Illustration]

                            ENGLISH FOXHOUND

Color: Not of great moment so long as it is not wholly black or wholly
white. The favorite color is black and hare-tan, distributed in large
patches on a white ground.

Height: 25 in.

Weight: 85 lbs.

A clean-cut, powerful hound. He has oblique and well laid-back
shoulders, gracefully arched neck, good spring of rib, strong loins, and
powerful hindquarters.

Skull should be flat, of medium width, the muzzle long, rather narrow
and deep and square at the end, with large nostrils. He is endowed with
extraordinary bone and hard, cat-like feet.


[Illustration]

                              TRAIL HOUND

Color: White with red, brown or yellow patches.

Height: 24 in.

Weight: 46 lbs.

This is a well built and symmetrical dog with a large head, domed in
skull, “stop” not too pronounced, occipital bone fairly well developed
and with good length of muzzle. The eyes are rather small and brown in
color. Nose sharp with open nostrils. The ears are set on low and lay
close to the head. The back is strong and muscular, and chest deep. Legs
straight, long and muscular. Stern is of medium length, carried higher
than the back and the coat short and dense.


[Illustration]

                                HARRIER

Color: Any hound color.

Height: 18 in.

Weight: 56 lbs.

The leading features of Harriers are long heads, free from “stop,”
square muzzles, sloping shoulders, straight forelegs, round cat-like
feet, short backs, well sprung ribs, strong loins, and sound
hindquarters with well bent stifles.


[Illustration]

                                 BEAGLE

Color: Blue mottle, black tan and white, black and tan, lemon and white
or any other hound color.

Height: 15 in.

The beagle is without doubt one of the oldest distinct breeds we have.

Beagles to be very choice can scarcely be bred too small. Although far
inferior in speed to the harrier the sense of smelling is equally if not
more exquisite in the beagle.

The short back, compact body, straight legs, round feet, powerful loins,
nicely placed shoulders, and the true beagle head is a beautiful thing
to look upon.

There are also the “pocket” beagle, which stands not more than 11 in.
high and a rough or wire-haired variety, though now very scarce. They
are hardy and useful in a rough country.


[Illustration]

                                 COLLIE
                             (Rough-Coated)

Color: Any color is accepted provided the markings do not disfigure. The
most popular colors are sable, with its many varying shades, and white
markings, black with white and tan markings, and blue merles.

Height: 24 in.

Weight: 65 lbs.

The collie is a lithe, active dog, and is remarkable chiefly for his
intelligent, cunning, yet kindly outlook, his magnificent coat and the
devotion he displays to his master. The elegance of his outline is quite
distinct from any other breed and shows great strength and activity. The
head should be moderately long, proportionate to the size of the dog,
with a flat skull moderately wide between the ears, and a very slight
elevation at the eyebrows, and very little “stop.” The muzzle should be
well filled up before the eyes. The ears are small and when at attention
should be carried semi-erect, with the tips turning slightly outwards.
The eyes are a most important feature in this breed. They should be
almond-shaped, not too large or too small, set obliquely in the head,
and of a dark hazel color. The blue merles should have a merled or
“China” eye, though this is not an essential. On the size, color and
placing of the eyes, together with the size and placement of the ears
depends the expression and characteristic outlook which is so
appreciated by connoisseurs. The neck should be long, body fairly short,
with well sprung ribs, chest deep and forelegs straight. Any tendency to
cow-hocks in the hind legs should be penalized. The tail should be
fairly long, carried low when in repose, and straight or gaily when
excited. The coat, except on the mask, tips of ears and legs where it is
smooth, should be very abundant, especially around the neck and chest,
where it should form a distinct cape and frill. A dense undercoat is
also very essential.


[Illustration]

                                 COLLIE
                            (Smooth Coated)

The smooth collie is identical with his rough-coated brother, excepting
that the coat should be short, dense and flat, with an abundance of
undercoat.


[Illustration]

                         FLAT-COATED RETRIEVER

Color: Rich black, free from rustiness and from white. There is also a
Golden Retriever so named because of the golden or yellow color of his
coat.

Height: 25 in.

Weight: 68 lbs.

The symmetry and elegance of this dog are considerable and essential,
and he has a decidedly sporting character. The head should be long with
the skull wide and flat at the top, and slight furrow down the middle.
Eyes of medium size, dark brown or hazel in color with a bright
intelligent and mild expression indicating a good temper. The neck long
and muscular, chest broad and deep with well developed and well sprung
ribs. The tail should be bushy but not feathered, carried gaily but not
curled over the back. His coat should be fairly long, bright, close and
thick, and either straight or slightly waved.


[Illustration]

                         CURLY-COATED RETRIEVER

Color: Black or liver, a white patch on chest is objectionable.

Height: 26 in.

Weight: 68 lbs.

A strong, smart dog moderately low on leg, active, lively, beaming with
intelligence and expression. The head should be long and narrow for the
length, the eyes should be rather large and cannot be too dark. Chest
not too wide but decidedly deep, back muscular and rather short with
powerful loins, straight forelegs and plenty of bone. The coat should be
formed of small tight curls all over the body much resembling the
Astrachan.


[Illustration]

                                POINTER

Color: A predominance of white is most favored by sportsmen. Liver and
white, lemon and white, and black and white are also quite common. Whole
colors black, liver and various shades of yellow are also quite correct.

Height: 26 in.

Weight: 70 lbs.

The Pointer is an elegantly shaped dog, symmetrical and well built all
over, of great strength and endurance, yet full of refinement and very
speedy. The leading essentials of a good Pointer are pace, endurance,
intelligence, and powers of smell. The head should be fairly long and
broad at the skull, muzzle long and well filled up. Eyes soft and dark
brown in color. Ears soft and hanging gracefully. Neck well arched and
long, free from dewlap or throatiness. Ribs well arched. Loins and hind
quarters very muscular. The stern must be strong at the root and free
from the slightest approach to curl at the tip.


[Illustration]

                             ENGLISH SETTER

Color: Black and white ticked, with large splashes and more or less
marked with black, known as blue belton; orange and white, ticked as in
the blacks and blues; liver and white, ticked in similar manner; black
and white, with tan markings; orange or lemon with white ticks; black
and white; liver and white. Pure white, black, liver and red or yellow
are occasionally seen but not desirable.

Height: 24 in.

Weight: 60 lbs.

This dog owns an elegant outline. The skull is moderately narrow between
the ears, with prominent occiput, a decided brow over the eyes, with
long muzzle. The eyes should be dark brown in color, and are full of
animation. Ears small, thin and soft, carried close to the cheeks. The
neck should be slightly arched, but must not be throaty, chest deep and
wide, tail should be carried with a gentle sweep downwards, and well
feathered with straight silky hair. The coat is soft and silky without
curl, and he should have plenty of feather on both fore and hind legs.


[Illustration]

                            CLUMBER SPANIEL

Color: Creamy white with lemon markings; orange markings not so typical.

Height: 18 in.

Weight: 65 lbs.

This is a long, low, massive dog, with a thoughtful expression. The
skull is large, massive and broad on top, with decided occiput, heavy
brow and deep stop. The muzzle should be of medium length, square and
with flews well developed. His orange brown eyes are of medium size and
deep set. The ears are large and pointed at the tip and the hair on them
should be straight. His neck is thick and powerful, well feathered
underneath, and his body is long, strong and barrel-like and the hind
quarters very powerful and muscular. The stern is docked, well
feathered, low set, and carried level with the back, and his coat is
abundant, soft and straight.

The Clumber is said to have been evolved by one of the Dukes of
Newcastle at Clumber Castle, in Nottinghamshire, England, from which
connection he takes his name.

The breed is also affected by other influential members of the English
peerage, which, together with his dignified bearing and classical
lineage, account for being dubbed the aristocrat of the spaniel family.
The Clumber differs from all other varieties of the Spaniel in that he
is considerably heavier and more massive and therefore less active and a
slower dog in the field. For this reason he is used largely by sportsmen
who do not care to travel as fast as the more agile varieties work.

Albeit as an all-round hunter the Clumber is probably without his equal
and is excellent alike both as a field and water dog.


[Illustration]

                            ENGLISH SPRINGER

Color: Almost any color.

Height: 20 in.

Weight: 50 lbs.

This dog is leggier in comparison to any other field spaniel and has a
short and symmetrical body, long head, square muzzle, rather narrow
skull, and low-set ears. He combines strength with activity, courage
with docility, and all the characteristics of a workman and gentleman
combined, but without his vices. The coat is thick, firm and smooth or
slightly wavy, and must not be too long.


[Illustration]

                             SUSSEX SPANIEL

Color: A deep shaded golden liver.

Height: 16 in.

Weight: 45 lbs.

In appearance the Sussex Spaniel is a sedate and thoughtful looking dog
when at rest but is full of life and activity when at work. The skull is
massive and heavy for his size with the forehead projecting over the
eyes. The jaws are long and square with flews fairly well developed and
nostrils large and of liver color. The eyes should be hazel in color,
large and soft in expression and should not show any haw. Ears large and
well furnished with silky hair. The body is long and round, with chest
deep and ample. The hind quarters are very muscular. The stern should be
docked to about 6 in. in length, set low, with a downward action and
well feathered. A low carriage of tail is most desirable. The coat is
straight or slightly wavy, thick, soft and abundant.


[Illustration]

                             FIELD SPANIEL

Color: Jet black throughout, a little white on chest, though a drawback,
should not disqualify.

Height: 15 in.

Weight: 50 lbs.

This is a moderately low and long dog, sound in the hind limbs, with
well sprung ribs and strong quarters. The head should be long and level
on top, with some stop. The skull should be narrow and the muzzle deep
and square. The ears are set on low and moderately long. The eye should
always be dark. The coat is flat, dense and glossy, with a fair amount
of feathering. Excessive feathering is objectionable.


[Illustration]

                             COCKER SPANIEL

Color: Jet black. A white, short frill is not disqualified but is not
desirable. Other colors—liver, lemon, red or any of these colors with
white or tan or both.

Height: 12 in.

Weight: 25 lbs.

This dog should be shaped like a setter in miniature, but he is more
merry and alert in expression and behavior. It is essential that he
should combine small size with great activity. The skull is fairly long
and forehead raised. Color of eyes varies according to the color of the
coat, but should always be mild in expression. The ears are of moderate
size, broad rather than long and fairly well covered with hair. His neck
is long, clean, arched, and muscular, with well developed body and very
strong hind quarters. The stern is docked, carried downwards, and has a
perpetually vibrating movement, a sort of restless quivering, peculiar
to his breed. The coat is smooth or slightly wavy, very dense but not
very long.


[Illustration]

                              FOX TERRIER
                            (Smooth Coated)

Color: White should predominate; brindle, red or liver markings are
objectionable.

Height: 16 in.

Weight: 20 lbs.

This dog generally presents a gay, lively and active appearance. He must
also possess speed and endurance, and the symmetry of an English
Foxhound. He must on no account be leggy, and like a well built hunter
cover plenty of ground without being long in the body. The skull is flat
and moderately narrow, ears V-shaped and small, dropping forward close
to the cheek, jaws strong and muscular. Eyes dark in color, small, full
of fire and intelligence, neck clean and muscular without throatiness,
chest deep but not broad, and the back should be short, straight and
strong. His legs viewed in any direction must be straight, well boned
throughout, and short and straight at the pasterns. His feet should be
round and compact, tail set on rather high, always docked, and carried
gaily, but not over the back or curled, and should be well coated. His
coat is straight, flat, smooth, hard, dense and abundant.


[Illustration]

                              FOX TERRIER
                             (Wire-haired)

This variety is identical with the smooth-coated Fox Terrier, except in
the matter of coat, which should be broken, and the harder and more wiry
the texture the better. On no account should it look or feel woolly or
silky. The coat should not be too long so as to give him a shaggy
appearance.


[Illustration]

                           ENGLISH GREYHOUND

Color: Any color, but those preferred are black, red or brindles, fawn,
blue and slates.

Height: 27 in.

Weight: 65 lbs.

The Greyhound’s head should be fairly wide between the ears and of good
length. The muzzle is long and lean. The eyes are full, bright and
penetrating, giving one the idea of high spirits and animation. The ears
are set well back on the head, small and folding when at rest, but
raised when in action. The neck is fairly long, arched and very
flexible. The shoulders should be as oblique as possible. Chest wide and
deep, back powerful and arched, loins strong, broad and deep, and the
hind legs very muscular, somewhat long, the stifles strong and well
bent, and very muscular thighs. The tail is long, fine and nicely
curved. A terse description of this dog is contained in the following
couplet:

                         The head of a snake,
                         The neck of a drake,
                         A back like a beam,
                         A side like a bream,
                         The tail of a rat,
                         And the foot of a cat.


[Illustration]

                                WHIPPET

This dog is a greyhound in miniature. The weights of the racing whippet
vary from 10 to 23 lbs., the best running weight being about 16 lbs.,
which is also considered the best size for an ideal show specimen.


[Illustration]

                              BULL TERRIER

Color: Pure white.

Height: 18 in.

Weight: 60 lbs.

This is a symmetrically built dog and the embodiment of agility, grace,
elegance and determination. He is styled by some as the Gladiator of the
canine race. Certainly he is plucky, yet generations of training have
made him the easiest of dogs to control. The skull is flat and wide
between the ears, and there should be no stop. The jaws are long and
very powerful, eyes small, very black and of almond shape. Ears when not
cropped should be small and carried semi-erect. The neck is long and
slightly arched without any loose skin. Chest wide and deep with well
sprung ribs, back short and muscular, tail short, set on very low down,
thick at the root, and tapering to a fine point, and must never be
carried over the back. The coat is short, close and stiff to the touch,
with a fine gloss.


[Illustration]

                            TOY BULL TERRIER

This dog should resemble the bull terrier in every respect except as to
size.

Height, 12 in.

Weight, 15 lbs.


[Illustration]

                            AIREDALE TERRIER

Color: The head and ears, with the exception of dark markings on each
side of skull, should be rich tan, as also should be the legs to the
thighs and elbows. The body should be black or dark grizzle.

Height: About 24 in.

Weight: About 50 lbs.

This dog is of a fairly recent creation. He is a sensible and
companionable dog, game to the core and a fine guard. He has a well knit
frame, great bone for his size, a long punishing jaw and lean head, with
a keen expression and a wiry, weather resisting coat. His ears should be
small and V-shaped. The tail is set on high and carried gaily, but not
curled over the back. The coat is hard and wiry but not so long as to
appear ragged. It should be straight and close.


[Illustration]

                           BEDLINGTON TERRIER

Color: Dark blue, blue and tan, liver, liver and tan, sandy, sandy and
tan.

Height: 16 in.

Weight: 24 lbs.

In general appearance the Bedlington is a lightly built, lathy dog, but
not shelly. The skull is narrow, deep and rounded, high at the occiput,
covered with a nice silky tuft or top-knot. His muzzle must be long and
tapering. The eyes are small, placed obliquely, and close together, and
in shade should follow the color of the dog. The ears are moderately
large, placed low, thinly covered and tipped with fine silky hair, and
filbert shaped. The neck is long and chest deep, though not wide. The
back should be slightly arched, and the body well ribbed up. The tail is
thick at the root and scimitar shaped. The coat is a mixture of hard and
soft hair, of the stand-off variety, and crisp to the touch.


[Illustration]

                           MANCHESTER TERRIER

Color: Jet black and rich mahogany tan. The position of the tan markings
is important. The muzzle should be tanned to the nose. A bright spot on
each cheek and above each eye and the under-jaw and throat are tanned
with a distinct black V mark immediately under the jaw. The fore legs
should be tanned up to the knee, with black lines up each toe, and a
black “thumb” mark above the foot. The insides of the hind legs tanned,
but divided with black at the hock joint. The under part of the tail is
also tanned, and there should be a light tan mark at each side of the
chest. Tan outside of hind legs, commonly called “breeching,” is a
serious defect, and in all cases the black should not run into the tan,
or vice versa. The two colors should be well defined.

Height: 17 in.

Weight: 20 lbs.

This is a good boned dog with the appearance of speed and activity
rather than of strength, and he should be free of any approach to the
whippet type. Head should be long, flat and narrow at skull, level and
wedge-shaped, and well filled up before the eyes, which should be small,
brilliant and dark. The ears if cropped should be carried erect. Chest
narrow and deep, body moderately short with well sprung ribs. The tail
is rather short and should not be carried higher than the back, and the
coat is close, smooth, short and glossy.

In the opinion of many the ban of the English Kennel Club, which now
prohibits the cropping of dogs’ ears, has seriously impaired the
popularity of this breed, as it is claimed that drop ears, no matter how
small and neatly they may be carried, compare unfavorably with the smart
appearance conveyed by neatly cropped ears. None the less a tremendous
amount of suffering unquestionably has been prevented as a result of the
English Kennel Club’s ruling, and all good sportsmen will endorse its
decision.

TOY MANCHESTER TERRIER

This dog should resemble his larger brother in every respect except that
he should be under ten inches in height and under six pounds in weight.


[Illustration]

                                MASTIFF

Color: Apricot or silver fawn or dark fawn brindle. In any case the
muzzle, ears and nose should be black, with black shadings around the
orbits extending upwards between them.

Height: 28 in.

Weight: 170 lbs.

This is a large, massive, powerful dog, with symmetrical and well knit
frame, a combination of grandeur, good nature, courage and docility. The
head offers a square appearance when viewed from any point. Great depth
is much desired. The skull is broad between the ears, with muscles on
the temples and cheeks well developed. There should be a depression up
the center of the forehead. The muzzle is short, blunt and square. The
eyes are small, wide apart, with stop between the eyes well marked, and
of a hazel-brown color, showing no haw. The ears are small, thin, set on
high and lay flat to the cheeks. The chest is wide and deep and the back
wide and muscular with great depth of flanks. His tail is thick at the
root and hangs straight in repose. The coat is short and close laying.

The Mastiff is one of the very oldest breeds known to the British Isles.
The Assyrian kings possessed a large dog of decided Mastiff type and
used it for lion hunting. Credible authorities point to a similarity,
also, between the Mastiff and the fierce Molorsian of the ancient
Greeks, and it is claimed by many students that the breed was introduced
into Britain in the sixth century B. C. by adventurous Phoenician
traders.

WHITE ENGLISH TERRIER

Color: Pure white.

This terrier should resemble the Manchester terrier illustrated on the
previous page in every respect excepting in regard to color, which
should be a pure white.


[Illustration]

                          OLD ENGLISH SHEEPDOG

Color: Any shade of gray, grizzle or blue with or without white
markings. Height: 24 in. Weight: 65 lbs.

This is a strong, compact dog, profusely coated, with a characteristic
ambling when trotting, and owns a thick-set, muscular short body,
liberal bone, and a most intelligent expression. The skull is capacious,
squarely formed, and well covered with hair. The eyes vary in color
according to the shade of the dog. A “wall” or “China” eye is considered
typical. The small ears are carried flat to the side of his head. Many
are bred tailless, if otherwise they are docked close. The coat is
profuse, of good hard texture, not straight, but shaggy, yet free from
curl. He should have plenty of undercoat.

This breed is also of very early origin and has been bred in England for
some hundreds of years. He is probably a relic of the early pastoral
days when the wolf inhabited the British isles, from which the flocks
and herds had to be protected. Some authorities claim, however, that he
is a descendant of the Russian Owtchar.

WHITE ENGLISH TOY TERRIER

This Toy Terrier should resemble the white English Terrier mentioned on
the previous page in every respect except as regards size, which should
be under ten inches high and under 6 lbs. weight.


[Illustration]

                               OTTERHOUND

Color: Grizzle and tan, blue and tan, yellow or red.

Height: 26 in.

Weight: 90 lbs.

The Rough-Coated Otterhound’s head should be large, but not showing
quite the peak of the bloodhound, long with strong and powerful jaws,
the whole appearance being sedate and intelligent. The eye should be
dark, the haw sometimes showing, but this is not a defect of the breed.
His long and pendulous ears are set on close to the head and covered
with hair short and fine in texture. The coat is hard, crisp, and not
too long, having also a close, woolly, water-resisting undercoat.


[Illustration]

                           YORKSHIRE TERRIER

Color: On the head a beautiful golden tan, much darker on the ears. The
back and tail should be dark blue inclining to silver, the latter color
extending over the other portions of the body, excepting the legs, which
should be a golden tan.

There are two classes for weight, under 5 lbs., and over 5 lbs. but not
exceeding 12 lbs.

This is a long-coated pet dog, the coat hanging quite straight and
evenly down each side with a parting extending from the nose to the end
of the tail. His general appearance is one of compactness and neatness,
with a sprightly and important bearing. The head is rather small and
should be flat. The hair should be very long on his muzzle and chin, of
a rich tan shade, and on no account intermingled with dark or sooty
hair. The ears when cropped are carried quite erect; when not cropped,
semi-erect. His body is very compact, and level on back. The tail is cut
to a medium length and should be well covered with dark blue hair,
especially at the end. The coat should be as long as possible, straight
and glossy as silk, and not wavy or woolly.


[Illustration]

                              TOY SPANIEL

Weight: Not exceeding 10 lbs.

The color of this dog varies with his breed, there being four varieties:
A. The King Charles; B. Tri-color, or Prince Charles; C. Ruby; D.
Blenheim.

The King Charles is a rich glossy black, with deep tan spots over the
eyes and on the cheeks.

The Tri-color or Prince Charles should have the tan of the King Charles
with markings like the Blenheim in black instead of red, on a pearly
white ground, the ears and under the tail should be lined with tan, and
he has no “spot.”

The Ruby is a rich chestnut red and a few white hairs intermixed on his
chest carries great weight against him, as they do on the chest of the
King Charles.

The Blenheim must on no account be whole colored, but should have a
ground of pure pearly white, with bright, rich chestnut or Ruby
markings, evenly distributed in large patches, and should have a spot on
the forehead.

Strictly speaking this breed might, with some justice, be classed with
the Spanish breeds, as unquestionably the King Charles Spaniel
originally hailed from that country, but since the early part of the
seventeenth century certain families of the English nobility have
affected him and it is equally true to assign the production of the
other three varieties to their influence and breeding operations.

The King Charles’s compactness of shape almost rivals that of the Pug.
He has a broad back and wide chest. The head is well domed, and in good
specimens is semi-globular, and the skull should project over the eyes,
so as to nearly meet the upturned nose. The eyes are set wide apart, are
large and dark, with enormous pupils. The stop is well marked, some good
specimens exhibiting a hollow. The nose is short and well turned up and
should be both deep and wide with open nostrils. The ears must be long
so as to almost touch the ground, are set low on the head, and be
heavily feathered. The coat is long, silky, soft and wavy, but not
curly. In the Blenheim there should be a profuse mane. The feathering
should be well displayed on the ears and feet, and on the King Charles
the feathering is very long and profuse. The feathering on the tail
(which is cut to the length of three or four inches) should be silky,
forming a marked “flag” of a square shape, and must not be carried above
the level of the back.




                              Irish Breeds


                          IRISH WOLFHOUND
                          IRISH TERRIER
                          KERRY BEAGLE
                          IRISH SETTER
                          IRISH WATER SPANIEL


[Illustration]

                            IRISH WOLFHOUND

Color: Gray, red, black, pure white, fawn and brindle.

Height: 35 in.

Weight: 150 lbs.

This dog though not as heavy and massive as the Great Dane is more so
than the Deerhound. He has a commanding appearance and is very muscular,
strongly though gracefully built, with movements easy and active. The
head is long, skull not too broad, and muzzle moderately pointed. Eyes
dark in color, ears small and of the greyhound type, neck very strong,
muscular and well arched, with a long back and muscular thighs. The tail
is long and slightly curved and well covered with hair. Coat should be
rough and hard on the body, legs and head, and especially long and wiry
over the eyes and under the jaw.

This breed is undoubtedly of great antiquity and was freely bred and
used hundreds of years ago in Ireland for the hunting of wolves. When
wolves became extinct the breeding of Irish Wolfhounds came to its
lowest ebb, but during the last twenty years great strides have been
made to resuscitate, and it is now one of the most popular of the large
varieties on the show bench.


[Illustration]

                             IRISH TERRIER

Color: Whole colored bright red, red, wheaten or yellow-red. A little
white is permissible on chest and feet, but is not desirable.

Height: 18 in.

Weight: 24 lbs.

The outstanding feature of this dog is a style of physiognomy and
expression peculiarly his own. The head is a little longer than the fox
terrier’s, his eyes hazel rather than very dark, and so set as to give
him the sort of dare-devil expression for which he is so famous. The
ears are small and V-shaped and drop forward close to the cheek. The
back should be strong, with loins broad and powerful. The stern is
generally docked, should be well covered with rough hair but free from
feathering. The coat is hard, wiry, straight and flat.


[Illustration]

                              KERRY BEAGLE

Color: Black and tan, blue mottled and tan, black tan and white, tan and
white.

Height: 22 in.

Weight: 45 lbs.

A well built and muscular dog. Head of moderate length, broad in skull,
slightly arched from eyes to point of nose, with long round muzzle. The
eyes are large, bright and intelligent, varying in color from bright
yellow to a deep brown. Ears large, pendulous, falling below the neck
and set on low. Chest deep but not broad. Back strong, moderate in
length and muscular. The stern is long and evenly furnished with hair,
thick at the root and carried curved upwards. The coat is hard, close
and smooth.


[Illustration]

                              IRISH SETTER

In the leading essentials, this dog is similar to its English brother.
The main difference between the two is that the head of the Irish dog is
not quite so long in proportion and the occipital bone not so well
developed. His eyes, too, are lighter, and show less haw, and his
expression, like that of the Irish Water Spaniel and the Irish Terrier,
is different than any English variety. In fact it is a characteristic
purely Irish expression.


[Illustration]

                          IRISH SPANIEL WATER

Color: A pure deep liver without any white.

Height: 23 in.

Weight: 60 lbs.

This is a highly intelligent dog with a rare combination of power and
activity. The skull is capacious with forehead prominent. Ears are set
on low, are long and well feathered. The neck muscular, body well
ribbed, chest deep and broad. The stern is thick at the root, is short
and tapers to a fine point, and is carried quite stiff and straight. It
should be covered with short, smooth hair, and present a whip-like
appearance. The coat is oily and on the body composed of small crisp
ringlets, on the head is a pronounced top-knot of long ringlets. The
mask is perfectly smooth.




                            Scottish Breeds


                      SKYE TERRIER (prick-eared)
                      SKYE TERRIER (drop-eared)
                      WEST HIGHLAND WHITE TERRIER
                      SCOTTISH TERRIER
                      SCOTTISH DEERHOUND
                      GORDON SETTER
                      DANDIE DINMONT
                      CAIRN TERRIER
                      SHETLAND SHEEPDOG
                      BEARDED COLLIE


[Illustration]

                              SKYE TERRIER
                             (Prick-eared)

Color: Dark or light blue or gray, or fawn with black points. Ears much
darker than the body.

Height: 9 in.

Weight: 18 lbs.

This is a dog of long and low structure. The skull is wide at front of
brow, narrows between the ears and tapers gradually toward the muzzle.
The eyes should be hazel color and set close together. Ears small,
carried nearly erect, and the neck long. The back should be level and
slightly declining from hip to shoulders, and should be very long and
low. The tail should hang perpendicular with a slight backward curl at
the end. This dog’s coat should be long, hard, straight and flat, with a
short, dense woolly undercoat. The hair on the head is shorter and
softer than on the rest of the body, and should veil the forehead and
eyes.


[Illustration]

                       SKYE TERRIER (Drop-eared)

The drop-eared Skye Terrier is identical with his prick-eared brother in
every respect, except that the ears are a little larger, should hang
straight down, lying flat at the side of the head, and incline a little
towards the front.


[Illustration]

                      WEST HIGHLAND WHITE TERRIER

Color: Pure white.

Height: 12 in.

Weight: 17 lbs.

In general appearance this dog is a small, game, hardy-looking terrier,
with a varminty appearance, strongly built, with straight back on
muscular legs. The coat should be about two and one-half inches long, of
a hard texture, with plenty of undercoat, and no tendency to wave or
curl. The tail should be straight, carried not too gaily, covered with
hard hair, but not bushy. The ears are small and as pointed as possible,
and carried absolutely erect. Eyes of moderate size, dark hazel in
color, widely placed, with a sharp, bright, intelligent expression. The
muzzle should be long and powerful.


[Illustration]

                            SCOTTISH TERRIER

Color: Steel or Iron-gray, Black-brindle, Brown-brindle, Gray brindle,
Grizzled, Black, Sandy and Wheaten.

(White markings are objectionable.)

Height: 12 in.

Weight: 20 lbs.

In general appearance this dog should appear to be higher on the leg
than he really is. He should look compact, be possessed of great muscle
in the hind quarters, and be powerfully put together throughout. He
should own a sharp, bright, and active expression, and head should be
carried well up. Skull should be long, slightly domed, very powerful
muzzle and very little stop. Eyes of dark hazel color, set wide apart,
small, piercing and very bright. Ears small and erect, and sharp
pointed, and covered with a velvety hair. The neck is short, thick and
muscular. Chest broad, body short and well ribbed up, and exceedingly
strong in hind quarters. The tail is never docked and should be carried
gaily. The coat is about two inches long on the body, dense, hard and
wiry in texture.


[Illustration]

                               DEERHOUND

Color: Dark blue-gray, brindles, yellow and sandy, red or red fawn,
especially if with black points. White is objectionable.

Height: 30 in.

Weight: 100 lbs.

In general form the deerhound should be like a greyhound, but heavier
and wiry coated. The head is long and the muzzle tapers decidedly toward
the nose. The skull should be flat with no stop. The eyes are dark brown
or hazel, and convey a soft look in repose, but a keen far-away
expression when the dog is aroused. The ears are set on high and should
fall back. A prick ear is bad, and a thick ear hanging flat to the head
or heavily coated is an even worse fault. The neck is fairly long and
very strong, and should carry sufficient coat to form a mane. The chest
is deep rather than broad, and the tail is fairly long and carried
straight down or curved when in repose. The coat on the body, neck and
quarters should be harsh and wiry, and about three or four inches long.
The Deerhound should be a shaggy dog. A woolly coat is bad.


[Illustration]

                           SHETLAND SHEEPDOG

This variety is of recent origin, the questionable intention being to
evolve a toy collie. The weights aimed at are from 7 to 10 lbs., and the
colors and conformation throughout should follow the collie as nearly as
possible. Considerable strides have already been made in this direction,
though the author does not regard the nature and disposition of a collie
as suitable for lap-dog purposes.


[Illustration]

                             DANDIE DINMONT

Color: Pepper or mustard. The peppers range from a dark bluish-black to
a light silvery-gray. The mustards vary from a reddish brown to a pale
fawn, the head being a creamy white.

Height: 10 in.

Weight: 18 lbs.

This is a terrier of considerable antiquity. He is very game and a dog
of exceptional power and pluck, yet endowed with an abundance of common
sense and docility. He should be round in skull, full in eye, which
should be a rich dark hazel. This dog should be strong in jaw, with
short, stout legs, and long weasel-shaped body, with a soft linty coat
and top-knot. A point strongly demanded is the size and carriage of his
ears, which should be almond-shaped, set on low, smooth-coated, with
edges fringed with longer hair, and lay very close to the head.


[Illustration]

                             CAIRN TERRIER

Color: The most appreciated colors are rich red-brindle and silver-gray
brindle. Black mask and muzzle very desirable.

Height: 10 in.

Weight: About 12 lbs.

This smart terrier is today one of the most popular of all the terrier
varieties. The head is fairly capacious for his size, ears are small and
carried erect, eye small, dark and of the peculiar keen “cairn”
expression not found in any other breed; well sprung in ribs, abundance
of bone and straight fore legs. The coat should be harsh and as dense as
possible.


[Illustration]

                             GORDON SETTER

Color: Red and black, with rich dark mahogany markings. The tan should
appear on lips, cheeks, throat, spots over the eyes, underside of ears,
front of chest, and the lower part of both fore and hind legs.

Height: 25 in.

Weight: 70 lbs.

In general appearance this is a well built and elegant dog, heavier than
the English setter. His head too is much heavier in construction. The
occiput is well developed, eyes lustrous, intelligent and full, ears set
on low and close to the upper neck. Neck should be fairly long and not
throaty, tail rather short and scimitar-like and nicely feathered. The
coat is straight or slightly waved, not curly and not so fine as that of
the English Setter.


[Illustration]

                             BEARDED COLLIE

The points of the Highland or Bearded Collie are identical with the Old
English Sheep dog except that he has a tail of moderate length and which
is carried low.

He is famous as a worker of sheep and cattle and is endowed with great
intelligence and highly prized in both the highlands and lowlands of
Scotland, equally for his companionship and faithful service as a guard
to either homestead or flock.




                              Welsh Breeds


                            WELSH TERRIER
                            SEALYHAM TERRIER
                            WELSH SPRINGER
                            WELSH HOUND


[Illustration]

                             WELSH TERRIER

Color: Black and tan or black-grizzle and tan, free from black penciling
on toes.

Height: 15 in.

Weight: 20 lbs.

This is a well-built, game, plucky terrier, with a smart and active
appearance. The skull is flat, fairly wide between the ears, and with a
fairly strong muzzle. The eyes are of a dark hazel color, are small and
indicate abundant pluck. Ears are V-shaped, small, set on fairly high
and carried forward close to the cheek. Back should be short and well
ribbed, and the hindquarters strong and the thighs muscular. The tail is
set on high and should not be carried too gaily. The coat is wiry, hard,
very close and abundant. White patches should disqualify.


[Illustration]

                            SEALYHAM TERRIER

Color: White with tan or brown patches, but such are not desirable.

Height: 10 in.

Weight: 16 lbs.

This dog was formerly known as the Border or Cowley terrier, and has
within recent years become very popular on account of his workmanlike
terrier qualifications. He should possess a long head with punishing
jaw, and be endowed with abundant whiskers. His ears are carried like
the fox terrier’s, eye small and dark, well sprung ribs, body fairly
long, immense bone for his size, short on the leg and hard weather
resisting coat.


[Illustration]

                             WELSH SPRINGER

Color: Red or orange and white.

Weight: Not more than 42 lbs.

As a worker this dog has no superior. He owns a well balanced head,
grand spring of rib, and powerful hind quarters. He may best be
described as a large Cocker Spaniel. His eyes should be hazel or dark
brown and should not show any haw. The ears are comparatively small and
hang close to the cheeks. His coat is straight or flat and thick.

The Welsh Springer has been bred and preserved in its purity for
hundreds of years. As a worker he has no superior, no day being too long
and no covert too difficult for the endurance and pluck of the gay
Cambrian Springer.


[Illustration]

                              WELSH HOUND

Color: Grizzle-red with white patches and with white markings like the
English Foxhound, Harrier and Beagle.

Height: 24 in.

Weight: 75 lbs.

A symmetrically built dog on racy lines. His head is of good length,
domed in skull and rather long muzzle. The eyes are small, brown and
intelligent in expression. The ears are often rounded and lay close to
the head. Neck long, clean and muscular without dewlap. Back strong and
broad, deep in the chest and very muscular in thighs and hindquarters.
Tail should be carried gaily, thick at the root and well furnished with
hard hair. The coat is hard, wiry, crisp and water resisting.




                        British Colonial Breeds


             GAZELLE HOUND (India)
             LHASSA TERRIER (India)
             TIBETAN MASTIFF (India)
             RAMPUR GREYHOUND (India)
             BANJARA (India)
             BARB (Australia)
             AUSTRALIAN TERRIER (Australia)
             KANGAROO GREYHOUND (Australia)
             MALTESE TERRIER (Malta)
             NEWFOUNDLAND, Black (Newfoundland)
             NEWFOUNDLAND, other than Black (Newfoundland)
             HUSKIE (Canada)
             LABRADOR (Canada)


[Illustration]

                                GAZELLE

Color: Self-colored black and the different shades of fawn and dirty
white.

Height: 29 in.

Weight: 70 lbs.

A big dog built on delicate and elegant lines. The head is fine, lean
and bony. Skull long and slightly domed. Eyes mild, intelligent and dark
brown, like the gazelle. Ears are long, hang close to the head and are
abundantly coated. The neck is long, chest deep, back straight, long and
strong, and tail is of fair length. The coat is smooth and very soft and
the ears and tail are covered with long, wavy, silky hair.


[Illustration]

                             LHASSA TERRIER

Color: Black, dark grizzle, slate, sandy, or mixture of these colors
with white.

Height: About 11 in.

Weight: About 14 lbs.

The head is distinctly terrier-like, with narrow skull, which falls away
in a marked degree behind the eyes. The eyes are dark brown in color.
Ears set on low and carried close to the cheeks. Body not too short, and
well ribbed up. The legs are short, with a tendency to crookedness. The
tail is carried over the back. A low carriage is considered a sign of
impure blood. The coat is of good length, straight and very dense with a
strong growth on the skull, and the legs should be well coated right
down to the toes.


[Illustration]

                            TIBETAN MASTIFF

Color: Black and tan, red with black saddle, mahogany red, or all black.
White is sometimes seen on the chest and toes.

Height: Not less than 30 in. Weight: Not less than 160 lbs.

This is a large, powerful and noble-looking animal, in aspect
courageous, grim and earnest. The skull is broad and arched, with
prominent occiput. His small eyes are dark brown in color, and often
show the haw. The deep wrinkles around the eyes give him a sullen,
savage look. Ears set on high, hang straight down, and not too long. His
neck is short and powerful, the hair on it standing up like a mane. The
tail is short, bushy and usually carried over the back, and his coat is
soft, thick, long and straight, with a woolly undercoat.


[Illustration]

                            RAMPUR GREYHOUND

Color: Mouse-gray.

Height: 30 in.

Weight: 75 lbs.

This is a powerfully built greyhound, with a long, strong skull, flat
between the ears, without any stop and has powerful jaws. His light
yellow eyes give him a hard and cruel expression. His ears are fairly
large and are filbert shaped. The body is somewhat coarse, of fair
length. Chest very deep and back slightly arched. When in action the
tail is carried horizontally and the end slightly curled upwards. His
coat is like that of a freshly clipped horse, if longer is a sign of
impure blood.


[Illustration]

                                BANJARA

Color: Self-colored, sandy, light fawn, and the various shades of gray.
Without white if possible, but a little white on chest and toes does not
disqualify.

Height: 25 in.

Weight: 45 lbs.

This dog is indigenous to the North of India, is as hard as nails in
constitution, somewhat rough and rugged in outlook, but a well-built,
symmetrical dog, possessed of considerable speed. His expression should
be very keen and wicked, especially when roused. Head is long and flat,
well filled up before the eyes, with a strong punishing jaw. The ears
lay flat on the cheeks and are filbert shaped. His small eye is close
set, and the color varies to the shade of the dog’s coat. The body is
moderately long and falls away a good deal to the set-on of the tail,
which also is set on low and carried with an upward sweep. His coat is
very thick and dense and close lying, soft to the touch but not silky.


[Illustration]

                                  BARB
          (The Australian Sheep Dog, often called the Kelpie)

Color: All black.

Height: 24 in.

Weight: 54 lbs.

A well-built, medium-sized dog with a head like the Pomeranian or
Schipperke. His almond-shaped, dark eyes convey an intelligent
expression. The ears are pricked, neck long and well arched, back
straight, chest deep but not too wide, and well developed loins. The
tail is of medium length and carried rather high, and his coat is of
fair length, straight and harsh.

This dog is extensively used by Australian and New Zealand shepherds in
the work-a-day life on their sheep ranches. His intelligence and
adaptability as a working sheep dog is said to be even more pronounced
than the best English, Welsh or Scotch exponents. Furthermore, he has
been bred in some quarters so that he cannot bark.


[Illustration]

                           AUSTRALIAN TERRIER

Color: Blue or gray body, tan on legs or face, with a top-knot of blue
or silver. Clear sandy or deep red.

Height: 10 in.

Weight: 15 lbs.

This is a rather low-set dog, compact and active. The head is long, full
between the eyes with a top-knot of soft hair. Eyes small, keen and of
dark color. Ears small, set high on skull, free from long hairs, and may
be either cropped or uncropped. The tail is docked. The coat should be
straight and of wiry texture.


[Illustration]

                           KANGAROO GREYHOUND

Color: All colors. Black not desirable.

Height: 29 in.

Weight: 66 lbs.

In general appearance he resembles the English Greyhound, but is heavier
built. The skull is broader between the ears and more domed and the ears
are not set so high as those of the English dog. His eyes are brown and
intelligent. Neck slender, muscular and slightly arched. Back long and
strong, with short, arched and muscular loins, and his hindquarters are
well developed and very muscular. The tail is long and fine and carried
downwards and his coat is smooth and fine, though sometimes coarser on
the body.


[Illustration]

                                MALTESE

Color: Pure white, without shade or tint.

Height: From 8 to 12 in.

Weight: Under 12 lbs.; the smaller the better.

This is a bright, spritely, active dog of very taking character. His
head is much like that of a drop-eared Skye Terrier in miniature, but
rather shorter and thicker in muzzle. The ears are moderately long and
are covered with long, silky hair, and his eyes are very dark and
piercing. He is short and cobby in back, and legginess should be
avoided. The tail is short, well feathered, particularly towards the
end, and carried gracefully over the back.


[Illustration]

                          NEWFOUNDLAND (Black)

Color: A. Jet black with a slight tinge of brown or a splash of white on
chest and toes is not objectionable. B. Black and white, or white and
black. Beauty in markings is of great consideration. C. Self-colored
bronze.

Height: 27 in. or more.

Weight: 100 lbs. or more.

This dog should impress the eye with strength and great activity. He is
a free mover for his size and should be sound on his legs. The head is
broad, massive, flat, with the occiput well developed. There is no
decided stop and the muzzle should be short and rather square in shape.
The eyes are small, dark brown, showing no haw, and set widely apart.
Small ears set well back and covered with short hair without fringe. He
should be massive in bone, well ribbed up in body, with broad back and
strong loins and hind quarters. Dew claws are objectionable. The tail is
of moderate length and should be well covered with long hair, carried
downwards when in repose. Tails with a kink in them or curled over the
back are very objectionable.


[Illustration]

                     NEWFOUNDLAND (Black and white)

[Illustration:

  _The Huskie Sledge Dogs of Northern Canada_
]

The Huskie is a strong, powerfully built dog, varying in size and color,
but uniform as to his great bone, stamina and dense coat. He is
extensively used for all manner of draught work in which service he has
made himself indispensable to mankind in the northern latitudes. See
special chapter on Alaskan dogs.


[Illustration]

                         THE LABRADOR RETRIEVER

Color: Black.

Height: 26 in.

Weight: 80 lbs.

The Labrador is of medium size, strong and well built, head strong and
rather long with wide, rather flat skull with a slight ridge running
down it. The eyes should be oval in shape, dark brown in color and of
gentle and intelligent expression. Being a hard working dog the body
should be rather long and well ribbed up, and deep in the brisket. He
should carry his thick and bushy tail rather high but not on the back.
His coat should be very profuse, and of moderate length, lying close to
the body and very oily.




                             French Breeds


                    PYRENEAN SHEEPDOG
                    FRENCH SHEEPDOG
                    BARBET
                    SMOOTH-COATED BASSET
                    ROUGH-COATED BASSET
                    ROUGH-COATED BASSET OF BRITTANY
                    BASSET OF ARDENNES
                    ROUGH-COATED BASSET OF VENDÉE
                    BLUE BASSET OF GASCOGNE
                    FRENCH POINTER
                    DUPUY POINTER
                    POINTER OF ARIEGE
                    POINTER OF SAINT-GERMAIN
                    POINTER BOURBONNAIS
                    BLUE POINTER OF AUVERGNE
                    FRENCH SETTER
                    SETTER OF PICARDIE
                    SETTER OF PONT-AUDEMER
                    GRIFFON BOULET
                    GRIFFON GUERLAIN
                    GRIFFON NIVERNAIS
                    GRIFFON FAUVE DE BRETAGNE
                    GRIFFON VENDEEN
                    FRENCH BULLDOG
                    NON-CORDED POODLE
                    CORDED POODLE
                    TOY POODLE
                    BORDEAUX
                    HOUND OF VENDÉE
                    POITEVIN HOUND
                    POITOU HOUND
                    NORMAND DOG
                    SAINTONGE
                    GASCOGNE
                    FRANCHE-COMTÉ
                    ARTOIS
                    VIRELADE
                    GRIS DE SAINT-LOUIS


[Illustration]

                           PYRENEAN SHEEPDOG

Color: All white, sometimes with small orange patches on the ears.

Height: 30 in.

Weight: 155 lbs.

This is a large, well-built dog, with a rather weak head in comparison
to his body. The skull is slightly rounded, and the muzzle should not be
too square. The small eyes should be brown and set obliquely in the
head. Ears of medium size, hanging close to the head. The tail is long,
well feathered and carried low, and his coat is long, straight, dense,
and fitting close to the body.


[Illustration]

                            FRENCH SHEEPDOG

Color: Dirty black, slate, grizzle and reddish.

Height: 25 in.

Weight: 65 lbs.

This is a well-built dog of medium size, with a busy and intelligent
appearance, and is well covered with a shaggy coat. The head is strong
and covered with long hair, forming eyebrows, beard and whiskers, yet
the eye is not hidden by the hair. The eyes are brown and very
expressive, ears short, erect and never pendulous and often cut. Body is
well-built for endurance. The tail is never docked, of medium length and
carried low, and his coat is long and woolly.


[Illustration]

                                 BARBET

Color: Grizzle black, creamy brown, dirty white, white and chestnut, and
white and black.

Height: 22 in.

Weight: 56 lbs.

The Barbet is a strongly made dog, very compactly built. Is round and
broad in skull with forehead well developed. Muzzle broad and short,
well furnished with long moustaches. The eyes are round, lively and
intelligent and dark brown in color, and are entirely hidden by the long
and thick hair on the eyebrows. The ears are set on low, are long and
flat and well covered with long, curly hair, which often forms cords or
ringlets. The body is strongly built, ribs and loins well rounded and
muscular. The forelegs are straight with plenty of bone and covered with
long hair. The tail is set on low, carried slightly upwards. The
Barbet’s coat is long, woolly and curly, forming cords or ringlets.


[Illustration]

                   SMOOTH-COATED FRENCH BASSET HOUND

Color: Black with white and tan, the head, shoulders and quarters a rich
tan, and black patches on the back. They are sometimes hare-pied.

Height: 13 in.

Weight: 50 lbs.

The head is most perfect when it closely resembles that of a bloodhound.
It is long and narrow with heavy flues, prominent occiput, and forehead
wrinkled to the eyes. The general appearance of the head should indicate
high breeding and a reproachful dignity. The eyes show a kind expression
and no haw is visible. Ears very long, so long that in hunting they will
often actually tread on them, set on low, and hang loose in folds like
drapery. Their texture is thin and velvety. Forelegs only about four
inches long. Stern is carried hound fashion, coat short, fine, smooth
and glossy. Skin is loose and elastic.


[Illustration]

                    ROUGH-COATED FRENCH BASSET HOUND

Color: Any recognized hound color.

Height: 13 in.

Weight: 50 lbs.

A very powerful hound for its size, on short and strong legs. The head
is large, skull long and narrow and peak well developed. A snipy or weak
jaw is objectionable. The eyes are dark with a kindly and intelligent
expression. Ears set on low, of good length and fine in texture. Chest
large and very deep. Body massive, of good length, any weakness or
lightness of loin being a bad fault. Forelegs are short and very
powerful. Stern of moderate length and carried gaily. The coat is
profuse, thick and harsh to the touch, with a dense undercoat, and may
be wavy.


[Illustration]

                    ROUGH-COATED BASSET OF BRITTANY

Color: Tawny red with white markings.

Height: 12 in.

Weight: 56 lbs.

This is a coarse-looking dog with long body and short, heavy neck. The
head is long with high domed skull. Stop slightly developed and long
muzzle. The eyes are dark in color, ears long, rounded at the tips and
slightly folded. Stern of medium length and carried upwards. The coat is
wiry and broken, of fair length, softer on the skull and ears.


[Illustration]

                         BASSET OF THE ARDENNES

Color: Black and tan, hare color or tawny red.

Height: 15 in.

Weight: 55 lbs.

This is a typical hound, a bloodhound in miniature. The head is large
but not broad, skull high and narrow, occipital bone well developed,
with pendulous lips. Eyes brown, with eye lids loose and pendulous. The
ears are long, fine and hanging forward close to the jaws. Body is heavy
and massive and the back long, broad and deep. The stern is carried
hound-like. The coat is short, hard on the body, but softer on the ears
and skull.


[Illustration]

                     ROUGH-COATED BASSET OF VENDÉE

Color: White with red patches or tri-color.

Height: 15 in.

Weight: 56 lbs.

This is a dog of strong and muscular shape, with a long, lean, slightly
rounded head. The eyes are dark brown with an intelligent outlook and
somewhat hidden by the strong eyebrows. The ears are soft, flat and
covered with white hair. Body long and low, and deep in chest. The stern
is short, set on high and carried very gaily. The coat is hard but of
rather fine texture.


[Illustration]

                        BLUE BASSET OF GASCOGNE

Color: Tri-color, so-called trout color, blue mottled, white with black
and light tan spots above the eyes.

Height: 14 in.

Weight: 56 lbs.

This is a strong and massive dog, with a long, well developed head,
skull high and narrow, prominent occiput and lips not too pendulous. The
eyes are dark brown, ears very long and folded. He is long in body, with
broad and deep chest. The stern is fine, set on low, and carried
upwards, and his coat is short and dense.


[Illustration]

                             FRENCH POINTER

The stern is generally docked; in all other respects similar to the
English Pointer.


[Illustration]

                             DUPUY POINTER

Color: Pure white with small or large dull brown markings.

Height: 27 in.

Weight: 50 lbs.

The Dupuy Pointer is a big upstanding dog with considerable elegance in
his movements. The head is narrow and long. Occipital bone prominent,
muzzle long, lean and slightly arched. Eyes golden brown in color with a
rather melancholy expression. Nose well developed and broad and brown in
color. Lips fine, thin and very tight. Ears set on rather high, very
fine in texture, not too long, and folded backwards. The neck is long
and gracefully arched. Chest deep and narrow. Hindquarters strong and
muscular. Stern long, set low and carried like a greyhound’s tail.


[Illustration]

                           POINTER OF ARIEGE

Color: White with light brown or lemon spots.

Height: 26 in.

Weight: 70 lbs.

This dog is elegant in build and well developed. The skull should be
rather narrow with the occipital bone well defined. Muzzle long with a
slight stop. Lips thin and pendulous. Ears very thin, long and set on
low. Neck long, graceful, strong and free from dewlaps. Chest broad and
deep, long in the back and loins. Hindquarters muscular and well
developed. The tail is long, set on rather low, and generally docked.


[Illustration]

                        POINTER OF SAINT-GERMAIN

Color: White with large lemon markings, not spots.

Height: 27 in.

Weight: 60 lbs.

In general appearance he is a clever looking, graceful dog, symmetrical
in shape and standing rather high on the leg. The occipital bone should
be well developed. Skull rather broad. Stop well defined, and the muzzle
long and straight. Eyes golden or yellow in color. Ears set on high,
shorter than the ears of the French Pointer, but longer than the ears of
the English Pointer. The neck is strong and well arched; chest deep and
broad. Hindquarters muscular and fully developed. Tail thick at the
root, carried straight or with a little curve but no curl at the tip.


[Illustration]

                          POINTER BOURBONNAIS

Color: White with light chestnut spots, and no large markings.

Height: 24 in.

Weight: 70 lbs.

This dog is rather lighter in bone than the English and French
varieties, is shorter and more compact in build, and more of the
appearance of a cob. The head should be long, straight and rather broad;
eyes large, dark amber in color, and with an intelligent expression.
Ears fine and not too long, set on rather low and hanging in folds. Neck
strong, short and muscular. Chest deep and broad. Hindquarters short,
round and muscular. Stern set on rather low, and not more than 3 inches
in length.


[Illustration]

                        BLUE POINTER OF AUVERGNE

Color: White with black markings and tickings, giving a blue effect.
Head always black with a white blaze up the face.

Height: 25 in.

Weight: 53 lbs.

In general appearance this dog is of perfect proportions suitable for
hard work. The occipital bone should be well defined. Skull broad with a
pronounced dip below the eyes. Muzzle straight and cheek bones well
developed. The eyes should be dark brown in color. Lips very pendulous.
Ears long and fine in texture, hanging in folds and should be set on
level with the eyes and not carried too closely to the head. Neck
strong, slightly arched and throaty. Hindquarters and legs similar to
other varieties of the Pointer. Stern strong at the root and generally
docked and set on low.


[Illustration]

                             FRENCH SETTER

Color: White with chestnut patches.

Height: 25 in.

Weight: 56 lbs.

The French Setter is a strong, shapely dog of an imposing appearance.
The head is strong and well developed. Skull round, broad and long with
the occipital bone well defined and the stop nicely chiselled. The eyes
should be rather small, dark amber in color, and of open expression. His
chest should be very deep and broad with long and rather flat ribs. The
stern set on high, rather long and be carried in two curves; the first
convex and the second concave, with a nice fringe of long, wavy, silky
hair. His coat should be thick and not bright, smooth on the head and
flat on the body with a fair amount on the belly, chest and throat and
the ears and legs well feathered.

SETTER OF PICARDIE

This is a variety of the French Setter and is sometimes called the black
Setter of the North. The points are the same, except that in color he
should be brown and grizzle, black or black and tan.


[Illustration]

                         SETTER OF PONT-AUDEMER

Color: Brown and grizzle, brown and white, or self-colored brown. A
black or black and white coat is objectionable.

Height: 22 in.

Weight: 56 lbs.

This dog should be of a short, thick-set build with a cobby appearance.
The skull should be round with prominent occipital bone, forehead rising
well toward the top-knot or crest. Eyes dark amber with a good and frank
expression. Nose brown and nostrils well open. The ears should be set on
rather low, hanging close to the neck and should be very long and well
furnished with long, crisp hair. The chest is deep and broad, back and
loins strong and muscular; back slightly convex, strong and short. The
stern should be strong in bone at the root, carried rather straight and
is generally docked. The coat should be crisp on the ears and top-knot,
which should stand upright, and rather thick and curly on the body. The
hair on mask should be smooth.


[Illustration]

                             GRIFFON BOULET

Color: Chestnut, dead leaf color with or without white, never with black
or yellow.

Height: 23 in.

Weight: 56 lbs.

A rather coarse-looking dog, but with a sharp appearance and his
expression is mild and intelligent. Has broad and round skull, long,
broad and square muzzle, with heavy moustaches. The “stop” well defined
but accentuated by strong eyebrows, give him a rather savage aspect. The
eyes, however, are intelligent and affable, of yellow color. The nose is
light color or brown with nostrils well open. The chest is broad and
deep and the ribs well arched. The forelegs are strong and muscular,
covered with abundance of long hair. The straight tail is of medium
length, well covered with hair but no feathering. His coat is of a
nondescript character, fairly long, and silky without brilliancy and
smooth or wavy, but is never curly.


[Illustration]

                            GRIFFON GUERLAIN

Color: White with orange or yellow patches.

Height: 23 in.

Weight: 56 lbs.

This is a medium-sized dog, short in the body and compactly built. He
has a big head for his size and the eyes are rather large and light
brown in color. The nose is always brown with nostrils well open. Chest
broad and back strong and well developed. The legs are straight and
muscular, rather on the long side and well covered with short, wiry
hair. Stern is carried straight, covered with wiry hair but without
feathering, and a third of its length is generally docked. The coat is
hard and wiry, rather short and not curly.


[Illustration]

                           GRIFFON NIVERNAIS

Color: Tri-color, black and tan and brown, with or without dirty white
patches.

Height: 23 in.

Weight: 60 lbs.

A strongly built dog, rather long in body and not particularly
attractive in appearance. The head is fairly long and rather square with
slightly domed skull. Muzzle also of medium length and of square
formation. The eyes are bright, intelligent and brown in color. Ears set
high and well back on the head, of good size and hanging without folds
close to the head. Back long, straight and muscular, as also are the
loins. The legs are straight with plenty of bone and covered with hard
hair. Stern of medium length, also well covered with hair. The coat is
semi-long, close and of a hard texture.


[Illustration]

                       GRIFFON FAUVE DE BRETAGNE

Color: Fallow, inclined to red, sometimes discolored red.

Height: 23 in.

Weight: 65 lbs.

A heavily-built dog, very robust. The head is large and strong with flat
skull, prominent occiput and muzzle of good length, square and strong.
The ears should not be too long and are covered with soft hair. The neck
is short and muscular and the chest deep. He is endowed with plenty of
bone in the leg and has splendid feet. The stern is of medium length,
well covered with hair but not any feathering. The coat is semi-long,
hard and wiry.


[Illustration]

                            GRIFFON VENDEEN

Color: White and orange, white and wheaten, white and mouse-gray, and
with red or brown patches.

Height: 25 in.

Weight: 65 lbs.

An upstanding dog of firm structure, covered with a hard and close coat.
The head is rather big and typical, pronounced in occiput and muzzle of
good length. The eyes are rather small, brown in color and full of life.
Ears long, nicely folded and hang gracefully. He is muscular in body,
deep and broad in chest with a rather long muscular back. The stern is
of medium length, carried gaily and well covered with hard hair. The
coat is thick, hard and wiry.

A similar dog to the Vendeen but more nervous in temperament and not so
heavily coated as the Griffon de Cosse, and those marked with the red or
brown patches are called Griffons du Grip or Griffons d’Anjou.


[Illustration]

                             FRENCH BULLDOG

Color: Almost any color, but black and black and tan will disqualify.

Weight: Three classes are provided, under 20 lbs., 20 to 24 lbs., and 24
to 28 lbs.

The French Bulldog ought to have the appearance of an active,
intelligent and very muscular dog of cobby build and heavy in the bone
for his size. The head should be large and square with the forehead
nearly flat, the muscles of the cheek well developed but not prominent.
“Stop” as deep as possible. The forehead should be wrinkled, and the
skin of the head not tight. Eyes moderate in size and dark in color.
“Bat” ears of medium size, large at the base and rounded at the tips and
placed high on the head. The body should be short and rotund with a
distinct roach and light but sound quarters. His shoulders should be
strong and he should stand on short but fairly stout limbs for his size.
The fundamental difference between the French Bulldog and the English
miniature is seen in the foreface which in the French should show some
slight protrusion of the under-jaw, and some turnup, but no layback.


[Illustration]

                             CORDED POODLE

Color: All black, all white, all red, or all blue.

Height: 22 in.

Weight: 50 lbs.

The most popular varieties of the Poodle are the corded and non-corded.
In general appearance he presents an active and elegant outline. He is a
well-built dog and carries himself proudly. The head is long, straight
and fine. The muzzle should be strong and the lips black and fit
tightly. Eyes almond shape, very dark brown, and full of fire and
intelligence. The ears are long and wide, set on high and hang close to
the head. The back is strong and muscular. The tail is set on high and
should never be curled or carried over the back. In the corded variety
the white Poodle should have dark eyes, black or dark liver nose, lips
and toe nails. The red Poodle should have dark amber eyes, with dark
liver nose, lips and toe nails. The blue Poodle should be of even color,
without patches of black or white, and have dark eyes, lips and toe
nails. All the other points of the white, red and blue Poodle should be
the same as the perfect black Poodle. The coat should be very profuse,
of good, hard texture, hanging in tight, even cords. In the non-corded
variety the coat should be very profuse, of hard texture of even length,
and may be either curly or fluffy.


[Illustration]

                           NON-CORDED POODLE


[Illustration]

                               TOY POODLE

Similar in all respects to the non-corded variety, but the coat is
softer and silkier, and he should not stand more than 12 inches high or
weigh more than 10 pounds.


[Illustration]

                                BORDEAUX

Color: Reddish fawn, with red mask, red with red mask, fawn and no mask,
fawn or red with black mask. Brindles, blacks and pied disqualify.

Height: 29 in.

Weight: 120 lbs.

This is a smooth-coated dog, very powerful in build, somewhat low in
stature, massive, broad and muscular. He possesses an enormous head,
greater in proportion to his body than that of any other breed, and
should be very long and broad, high and square, and the whole of the
face and muzzle should be covered with ropes of loose skin, lying in
wrinkles. The eyes are small, wide apart, deep set, light in color, and
very penetrating in expression. The “rose” ears when uncropped should be
small and fine in texture. The neck is very thick and powerful, with
skin very loose, forming a dewlap on each side of the throat. Back is
short and straight, of great breadth at the shoulder, and the
hindquarters should be pear-shaped, as in the bulldog, and it should not
be forgotten that this dog is the gladiator of his race.


[Illustration]

                            HOUND OF VENDÉE

Color: White or with dark red and yellow patches.

Height: 28 in.

Weight: 58 lbs.

A strong dog, well built and elegant. His head is clean and slightly
arched and skull rounded. The eyes are dark yellow or dark brown in
color. Nose brown with well open nostrils. The ears are flexible, thin,
long, pendulous, set on low and nicely folded. The neck is long, clean,
well muscled and splendidly arched. The loins are well arched, powerful
and deep. Legs clean, straight and well boned and stern of medium
length, tapering and carried rather high. The coat is short and fine.


[Illustration]

                             POITEVIN HOUND

Color: White, blue and orange, with pale tan markings on body and legs.

Height: 25 in.

Weight: 58 lbs.

This is a muscular sort of dog with rather square fine head, slightly
domed in skull, occipital bone not particularly well developed. Eyes are
brown and intelligent. Nose black with open nostrils. Ears well set on,
rather short and well folded. Neck of good length. Back slightly arched
and chest not too deep. The legs are straight, strong and well boned.
Stern of medium length, carried gaily and with a short, rather thick
coat.


[Illustration]

                              POITOU HOUND

Color: White, black and tan, and tri-color.

Height: 26 in.

Weight: 58 lbs.

A muscular dog with limbs rather flat but large. The head is lean, fine
and carried proudly on a well arched neck. The skull is slightly domed
and the occipital bone just visible, and the muzzle should be long. The
brown eyes give him a bright and intelligent expression. The ears are
moderately short, very thin, velvety and hang gracefully in folds. His
deep chest, slightly arched back, well muscled loins and straight,
well-boned limbs, fit him for arduous work. The stern is of medium
length and tapers towards the point. The coat is coarse and should not
be too short, especially on hindquarters and stern.


[Illustration]

                              NORMAND DOG

Color: White with large brown, black or grizzled patches, tri-color with
grizzle saddle.

Height: 29 in.

Weight: 78 lbs.

A heavy, strong, rather coarse-looking dog and is the heaviest of all
the French Hounds. He has a long, broad skull with coarse muzzle and the
skin on the head is very loose and wrinkled. The eyes are full and gay
and the haw is visible. Ears set on low, long, thin, velvety and folding
inwards. The body is rather long and heavy. Neck short, strong and thick
with heavy dewlap. Back broad, strong and well muscled. Legs strong,
muscular and with rather coarse bone. The feet are clean and pointed.
The stern is thick at the root, tapering towards the point and carried
gaily, curved upwards. The coat is short and coarse in appearance.


[Illustration]

                               SAINTONGE

Color: White with black patches and blue belton. The ears and palate
always black and he has light tan spots above the eyes.

Height: 28 in.

Weight: 62 lbs.

In general appearance this dog is elegant and not too heavily built. The
head is lean, light and of a fair length, with skull slightly arched and
with occipital bone well developed. The eyes are bright and intelligent,
showing the haw and brown in color. Ears long, fine, set on low, black
in color, edged with a light tan. Chest deep and rather narrow; legs
straight, lean and rather long. Stern is of medium length and tapering.
Coat short and fine.


[Illustration]

                                GASCOGNE

Color: Blue or white with many black spots, blue mottled, and pale tan
markings, rather black and the legs tinted with red.

Height: 23 in.

Weight: 55 lbs.

This is a strong and massive dog, with a large and sometimes a rather
long head, with the occipital bone well developed, resembling in this
respect a bloodhound. The eyes are brown, bright and clear, and somewhat
hidden, showing the haw. The lips are pendulous. Ears very long, rather
fine and well folded. Chest very deep, back broad and strong. The stern
is fine but not too long and carried well up. Coat short and hard on the
body, soft and silky on the skull and ears.


[Illustration]

                             FRANCHE-COMTÉ

Color: White with yellow, orange or red patches.

Height: 23 in.

Weight: 54 lbs.

A dog of medium size and symmetrically built. The head is fine and of
fair length with domed skull and the occipital bone slightly developed.
Eyes of medium size, bright and brown in color. Ears are set on low, of
medium length, thin and soft. He is rather short in the neck, chest
deep, ribs not too rounded, legs well boned and muscular. His stern is
set on high, rather short, and tapers to a fine point. The coat is
smooth, fine and glossy.


[Illustration]

                                 ARTOIS

Color: White with yellow or red patches, tri-color with black saddle.

Height: 23 in.

Weight: 50 lbs.

A strong and well-built dog of medium size. Rather long skull, with the
stop not too deep. The eyes are full, dark yellow or light brown in
color. The ears are broad, very long and set on low. Body not too long,
neck rather short, back strong and straight. His legs are not too long
and are straight and strong. The stern is strong and carried upwards.
The coat is short and not too silky.


[Illustration]

                                VIRELADE

Color: White with large black patches and light tan spots.

Height: About 29 in.

Weight: About 62 lbs.

A dog of great size, yet strong and light and rather long in the body.
The head is fine rather than heavy; occipital bone well developed, and
has pendulous lips. The eyes are brown in color and the ears long and
fine. He is strong, straight and well boned in the legs. The stern is
long and carried hound-like, and he is short in coat.


[Illustration]

                          GRIS DE SAINT-LOUIS

Color: Grizzle on the back, red brindled with the legs of a hare color,
or the back rather black and the legs tinted with red.

Height: 23 in.

Weight: 55 lbs.

This is a dog of good size, rather high on the legs, strong and
symmetrically built. The long, well developed head has a broad skull,
slightly rounded and stop well defined. The muzzle is of medium length,
square and strong. His bright and intelligent eyes are dark brown in
color. The ears are set well back on the head, are long, thin, and
nicely folded. Neck not too long and very muscular. He is strong and
broad in back with a deep and capacious chest. Legs straight, long and
well boned. The stern is thick and well covered with hair and carried
very curved. The coat is hard and wiry.




                             German Breeds


                      GREAT DANE
                      DACHSHUND
                      POMERANIAN
                      POMERANIAN (Miniature)
                      DOBERMANN PINSCHER
                      AFFENPINSCHER
                      GERMAN SHEEP DOG
                      GERMAN HOUND
                      WIRE-COATED GERMAN TERRIER
                      SMOOTH-COATED GERMAN TERRIER
                      SMOOTH-COATED GERMAN POINTER
                      ROUGH-COATED GERMAN POINTER
                      POINTER OF WURTEMBERG
                      POINTER OF WEIMAR
                      GERMAN SETTER
                      WACHTELHUND
                      GRIFFON-KORTHALS
                      BOXER
                      HANOVRIAN LIMER
                      BAVARIAN LIMER


[Illustration]

                               GREAT DANE

Color: Brindle, fawn, blue, black and harlequin. The harlequin should
have jet-black patches and spots on a pure white ground.

Height: 30 in. or more. Weight: 120 lbs. and over.

This dog is remarkable in size and very muscular. Strongly yet elegantly
built, which latter feature is an absolute essential, as also is
alertness of expression and briskness of movement, and generally he
should carry a look of dash and daring. The head is of great length,
muzzle broad, and jaw powerful. The skull should be flat rather than
domed, and have a slight indentation running up the center. The ears in
Germany are cropped, set high, and carried erect, with the tips falling
forward. The neck should be long and well arched, and quite free from
loose skin. The body is very deep, back strong and hind quarters
extremely muscular. His coat is short, dense and sleek.

The abolition of cropping by the English Kennel Club resulted in English
breeders concentrating their attention to the production of a small ear,
which would hang neatly in lieu of his original large ear, which was
desirable when cropping was permitted. In doing this, character was at
first lost, to some extent, in head, color and soundness of limb, but
these temporary disabilities have now been largely overcome.


[Illustration]

                               DACHSHUND

Color: Black, gray, red or yellow in good harmony, much white is
objectionable.

Height: English standard, 7 to 9 in.; German standard, 7 to 8½ in.

Weight: English standard, 18 to 21 lbs.; German standard, three classes:
A. 15½ to 16½ lbs.; B. 15 to 22 lbs.; C. Over 22 lbs.

It will be observed from the above that there is a difference of opinion
between the German and English ideas as to the most desirable size of
the Dachshund. This dog is of a long, low and graceful conformation. His
figure though elongated should present a stiff and muscular appearance,
notwithstanding his short and crooked front. He should not appear lean
or weasel-like. His pert, saucy pose of the head is a desirable
characteristic. The skull is long and narrow, eyes small and in shade
should follow the color of the dog, ears long, broad and soft, chest
narrow and deep with breast bone prominent, stern long and strong, flat
at the root and carried low. His skin should be thick, subtle, loose and
in great quantity. There are three varieties as regards coat. A—The
smooth, short and strong coat. B—The rough, dense, not silky or long
coat. C—The long-coated variety, which should be straight, though it is
sometimes wavy, fine and glossy. It should be abundant on the neck,
chest, ears, forelegs and tail.

It is worthy of notice that though the Dachshund is of German origin,
the English Dachshund Club, founded in 1881, preceded the German Teckel
Klub by ten years, and Dachshunds were exhibited in England five or six
years before they made their appearance on the show bench in Germany.
The “points” of the two clubs also differed considerably, more
particularly in regard to the head and size. The English breeders seemed
rather to regard him as a hound, but nowadays there is little or no
difference between the best specimens of the two countries.

[Illustration]


[Illustration]

                               POMERANIAN
                                (Spitz)

Color: White, black, blue, brown, chocolate, sable in all shades, red,
orange and fawn in all shades, and parti-colors. The whites must be free
from lemon or any color, and the other colors free from white. In the
parti-colors the colors should be evenly distributed in body patches.
Self-colored dogs with white feet or legs are objectionable.

Weight: About 24 lbs.

This is a compact, short-bodied dog, with head and face fox-like. Small
erect ears, and exhibits great intelligence in expression, docility in
disposition and activity in buoyancy and deportment. The skull should be
somewhat flat, eyes oblique, not set too wide apart, bright and dark in
color. The neck is short and lion-like, is covered with a profuse mane
and frill of long straight hair. The tail is a characteristic of this
breed and should be turned over the back, profusely covered with long
spreading hair. He should have a long, perfectly straight and glistening
coat, sound and even in color, and soft fluffy undercoat, the whole
effect being of a stand-off, weather resisting variety.


[Illustration]

                               POMERANIAN
                              (Miniature)

This breed has now been perfected as a toy variety to the almost entire
exclusion from the show ring of the original spitz. Formerly he was
produced in Pomeria, in all sizes from 20 to 40 lbs. weight. Then the
fashionable weight became 18 to 24 lbs., but latterly breeders have
perfected the variety and he is classified at shows as above 8 lbs. and
less than 8 lbs., until nowadays the smaller they are the more they are
appreciated. There are many poms around three or four pounds weight, and
some full grown specimens have been exhibited as small as 1½ lbs.


[Illustration]

                           DOBERMANN PINSCHER

Color: Black and tan, small white patches on chest is permissible.

Height: 24 in.

Weight: 45 lbs.

This is a well built muscular dog, with an appearance denoting
quickness, strength and endurance, and he has a lively and game
temperament. The skull is broad, flat and slightly rounded, muzzle long
and moderately tapered. Ears well cropped and not too pointed. Eyes dark
brown, of medium size, with a friendly and intelligent outlook. The back
is straight and of fair length, with well developed and muscular hind
quarters. The tail is docked to the length of about 6 inches, and
bob-tails are much appreciated. He has a short, hard, and close-lying
coat.


[Illustration]

                             AFFENPINSCHER
                            (Monkey Terrier)

Color: Gray-black, blue-gray, dirty yellow, red and their different
shades. The light-colored dogs have often a black muzzle.

Height: Not more than 20 in.

Weight: Under 8½ lbs.

This is a small ladies’ dog, well built, of compact form and very
intelligent. The head is thick and round, covered with long, hard and
unequal hair, muzzle short and strong and he should be under-shot, yet
without showing any teeth, and well furnished with mustache and beard.
The eyes are large, round, prominent and very intelligent and dark in
color. The eyebrows should be straight coated but not hanging, with a
general outlook that of the monkey. The ears are always cut, carried
erect and pointed, set on wide apart and well covered with short hair.
He has a very compact body, is short in neck and broad in chest. The
tail is docked to about two-thirds of its length, and is carried
upwards. His coat is profuse, long, hard and unequal, and should be of a
dry nature, with a woolly undercoat somewhat curled.


[Illustration]

                          GERMAN SHEPHERD DOG

Color: Black, grizzle, reddish brown, either self-colored or with tan,
white and white with large dark patches or brindle, with or without tan
markings. White on the chest and legs is permissible, but not desirable.

Height: 22 in.

Weight: 55 lbs.

This is a medium-sized dog, rather long in the body but well built, and
is very game and intelligent. The head is lean, skull broad between the
ears and long lean muzzle. The ears are of medium size, carried erect,
and pointed forward. The eyes are almond-shaped, dark in color, full of
“fire” and intelligence, but often sour. The body is rather narrow, with
deep chest, straight back and strong loins. The tail is well coated,
carried low when the dog is quiet and gaily but not over the back when
excited. There are three varieties as to coat: A. Smooth-coated. Short
dense and hard, round the neck the coat is longer and harder. B. Long
haired, wavy and hard, the hair on the head partially covering the eyes,
and with well marked beard and moustaches and tail well feathered. C.
Wire-haired. Straight, hard and wiry, that on the head and legs being
especially short and hard with beard and eyebrows well developed.


[Illustration]

                              GERMAN HOUND

Color: White muzzle, collar, neck, chest and tip of tail; the head, body
and tail are orange, tawny, yellow, black, grizzle or brindle, but never
brown.

Height: 21 in.

Weight: 40 lbs.

This is a lightly made, elegant dog, with head lean, long and narrow,
occipital bone not prominent, and “stop” slightly developed. The eyes
are bright with a friendly expression. Ears long, broad, flat and round
at the tips. Fairly light in body, which is well developed in comparison
to the head. Stern long, rather thick, tapering point and well covered
with long hair, and carried downwards with a slight upwards. The coat is
long for a smooth-coated dog and is very dense and hard.


[Illustration]

                       WIRE-COATED GERMAN TERRIER
                         (Schnanzer or Rattler)

Color: Pepper and salt, iron-gray, silver-gray, dull black with yellow
or tan markings on head and legs, rust-yellow and gray-yellow. A bright
red is objectionable.

Height: 18 in.

Weight: 28 lbs.

This is a strongly built cobby dog, of a rather nervous temperament, yet
he is gay, watchful, very intelligent and courageous, without being
quarrelsome. He is a first rate rat dog. The head is strong, fairly
long, with a flat skull rather narrow between the ears, and the occiput
is well developed. The ears are set on high and are cropped with rounded
tips. The oval eyes convey an intelligent and vivacious expression, with
eyebrows well developed and covered with rough upstanding hair. His back
is strong and straight and rather flat sided in rib. The tail is set on
high, is docked very short and if a bob-tail is much appreciated. The
coat is as hard, rough and wiry as possible, of the stand-off variety
and though it is shorter on the head, it is not softer. On the muzzle we
find a characteristic short beard and whiskers.

This breed has worked himself into popular favor in Germany by his
indefatigable industry as a worker and as a good friend of the horse,
hence he is much appreciated in the stable. Certainly he is very
intelligent, a very apt pupil, as quick as lightning in his movements
and unfailing in his fidelity, courage, endurance and muscular strength.
He is a rare good dog for bad weather purposes.


                      SMOOTH-COATED GERMAN TERRIER

This dog is the same in every particular to the wire-coated German
terrier, excepting that his color is black and tan, black with yellow
shade and wolf gray, and the coat is smooth, of fine texture and lays
close to the body.


[Illustration]

                      SMOOTH-COATED GERMAN POINTER

Color: Pure brown, brown and white, or white with brown patches.

Height: 26 in.

Weight: 70 lbs.

This dog is of medium size and is built on good uniform lines. It should
not be too heavy in the head. The lips should be pendulous. Eyes oval in
shape and brown in color, varying somewhat according to the shade of his
coat, and have a rather grave expression. Ears moderately long but not
too broad, and should lay without folds close to the head. Back
straight, broad, short and muscular. The stern is of medium length, and
should be carried a little above the line of the back, strong in bone at
the root, but not coming to a fine point. The tail is always docked.


[Illustration]

                      ROUGH-COATED GERMAN POINTER

Color: Brown and white, apparently grizzled-brown mixed with large brown
markings.

Height: 26 in.

Weight: 70 lbs.

In general appearance this dog follows the characteristics of the
smooth-coated German Pointer except in the matter of coat, which should
be about 2 inches long all over the body of a rough, hard and dull
texture. In the winter time a considerable undercoat is developed. The
cheeks are well covered with whiskers, and the eyebrows are bushy. On
the skull the hair is flat, short, hard and dull.


[Illustration]

                         POINTER OF WURTEMBERG

Color: Tri-color, so-called trout color, with brown-brindle and patches
of tan markings. Head and ears darker in color than the rest of the
body. Height 27 in. Weight 75 lbs.

A strong, shapely dog, not coarse-looking and standing rather high on
the leg. The skull is long and narrow, occipital and cheek bones well
developed. The eyes are light brown in color, of intelligent and grave
expression and showing a prominent haw. Ears set on not too high, and
hang gracefully close to the cheeks. The neck should be strong, very
muscular and throaty. The chest is deep, back straight, broad and
powerful, and loins broad and deep. The tail is strong and set on not
too high.


[Illustration]

                           POINTER OF WEIMAR

Color: Varies from silver grizzle to mouse grizzle, often clearer on the
head and on the ears. White patches on the chest and on the feet are
objectionable, and tan markings are decided faults.

Height: 26 in.

Weight: 70 lbs.

In general appearance the dog of Weimar is of medium size but with
muscles not so well developed as the German Pointer. The head is rather
light, and narrow in skull, and the occipital bone well developed. The
jaws are long, lips pendulous without exaggeration, and the muzzle
broad. Eyes of medium size, yellow brown in color. Nose flesh-colored,
joining on to the muzzle in a clear violet tint. The ears are light and
somewhat pointed. Tail rather thin and short.


[Illustration]

                             GERMAN SETTER

Color: Self colored dark brown, often with a little white on chest;
white with large or small brown patches or mixed; never black or red.

Height: 26 in.

Weight: 70 lbs.

In general appearance the German Setter is a strong, shapely dog, not
too heavy in build. The head is rather long, skull slightly rounded,
lips pendulous. Eyes are of medium size, oval in shape, dark brown in
color, varying in shade with that of the coat. The body should be
straight, broad and muscular, with neck slightly arched but not throaty;
chest deep but not too broad. The stern should be of medium length,
strong at the root and tapering near the point, carried straight to the
middle with the end curled upward and well feathered.


[Illustration]

                              WACHTELHUND

Color: Self-colored brown, often with a white patch on stern and chest;
white with large or small brown patches, or mixed.

Height: 20 in.

Weight: 56 lbs.

The Wachtelhund is somewhat like the German Setter in miniature and is
strongly built, notwithstanding his small size. The head is large and
long, skull slightly rounded and fairly broad. Muzzle of fair length and
narrow with the occipital bone and stop both well defined. The eyes are
dark in color, varying in shade with that of the coat and of medium
size. The ears are long compared with those of the German Setter, are
set on high and hang close to the head. The neck should be strong and
not throaty; chest deep, back straight, broad and muscular, and the
loins short and broad. He is strong and straight on the leg and the tail
is usually docked and well feathered. The coat is slightly wavy, fairly
long and very dense.


[Illustration]

                            GRIFFON-KORTHALS

Color: Steel gray with brown patches or self-colored brown often mixed
with grey hairs. Also white, grey with brown, or grey with yellow
patches.

Height: 24 in.

Weight: 56 lbs.

This dog is of medium size, symmetrical and well built. The head is
heavy and long, covered with wiry hair not too long, but there should be
a good moustache and eyebrows. The muzzle is long and square, nasal bone
convex and the stop not too abrupt. The eyes are large, very intelligent
in expression and brown or dark yellow in color. The nose is always
brown. Ears of medium size, set on not too low, carried close to the
head. The back strong and well developed and the forelegs straight,
muscular and covered with wiry hair. The stern is carried straight out
and is covered with wiry hair but without feather. About a third of the
stern is generally docked. The coat is wiry, crisp and harsh like fine
iron wire, never curly or woolly. Undercoat is dense and soft.


[Illustration]

                                 BOXER

Color: Yellow or brindle, with or without black muzzle. White patches
allowed, but liver color is a disqualification.

Height: 21 in.

Weight: 50 lbs.

A strong, lively, smooth-coated dog of great activity. The ears are set
on high, are always cropped and when at attention the skull is freely
wrinkled. The eyes are dark and large and his back is short and straight
with well rounded ribs. The tail set high and is always docked. Coat
short, hard and glossy.


[Illustration]

                            HANOVRIAN LIMER

Color: Gray-brown, like the winter coat of a deer, tan, red-yellow,
darker on the mask, ears, and around the eyes, and often with a dark
trace down the back.

Height: 20 in.

Weight: 54 lbs.

In general appearance this dog is of medium height, of strong and long
structure. He is broad in skull and slightly domed, forehead slightly
wrinkled, eyebrows well developed and protruding. The eyes show no haw
and convey an energetic and earnest expression. Ears are very broad, set
on high, and are carried close to the head. Chest wide and deep, back
long with broad loins. The tail is long, strong at the root and
tapering, well provided with long hair and carried downwards. The coat
is close, full, smooth and elastic, and of a dull appearance.


[Illustration]

                             BAVARIAN LIMER

Color: Tan, red-yellow, or wheaten, often darker on the back, with
muzzle and ears nearly always black.

Height: 20 in.

Weight: 52 lbs.

A medium-sized dog, light in bone, with a grave and mild expression. Has
a broad skull, slightly domed, eyebrows well developed, “stop” slightly
defined, and lips not too heavy or pendulous. The eyes are dark brown
and the haw is not visible. The ears are of medium length, broad, set on
high, and round at the tips. Body not too long and chest fairly broad.
Tail of good length, well covered with long hair, carried downwards, and
is never docked. The coat is full and dense of hard texture, finer on
the head and ears.




                             Italian Breeds


                          ITALIAN GREYHOUND
                          ITALIAN GRIFFON
                          ITALIAN POINTER
                          BOLOGNESE
                          ITALIAN SHEEPDOG
                          SHEEPDOG OF ABRUZZES


[Illustration]

                            ITALIAN SHEEPDOG

Color: Dirty yellow, dark shades are not desirable.

Height: 23 in.

Weight: 62 lbs.

This is a strong, thick-set dog with heavy, somewhat rounded skull. The
eyes are hazel color of intelligent expression. Ears are short and
hanging, covered with fairly long, straight fur. His back is strong and
straight; tail long, carried low and well coated, and the coat is curly
and dense, except on the head, where it should be smooth.


[Illustration]

                        SHEEPDOG OF THE ABRUZZES

Color: All white.

Height: 27 in.

Weight: 66 lbs.

A large and coarse dog. The head is fairly long, somewhat broad in
skull, slightly domed, and without stop. The eyes are small and dark in
color; ears of medium size and carried close to the head. Body strong
and well built, with well developed and muscular loins. The tail is
long, well coated, generally carried low, but sometimes over the back.
His coat is dense and long, especially around the neck, on the back and
on the tail. The skull, muzzle, ears and forepart of the legs are
smooth-coated. A curly coat is a serious fault.


[Illustration]

                           ITALIAN GREYHOUND

Color: Self-colored, golden fawn, but all shades of fawn, red, mouse,
blue, green, and white are recognized. Blacks, brindles and pied are
less desirable.

Weight, two classes: Over 8 lbs. and under 8 lbs.

This is an English greyhound in miniature, of very slender proportions,
and of ideal elegance and grace in shape, symmetry and action.


[Illustration]

                            ITALIAN GRIFFON

Color: All white or white with yellow or light brown patches.

Height: 26 in.

Weight: 56 lbs.

This dog is known as the Spinone and is a well-built and clever dog of
medium size. The head is rather long and large and though the moustaches
are abundant the rest of the hair on the head is of a smooth nature. The
skull is not too broad, forehead slightly domed, muzzle square and long,
and the stop not very clearly defined. The eyes, though yellow or light
brown in color, are very intelligent. Ears not too large, set on rather
high and hang close to the cheeks. The stern is carried straight or
slightly upwards, and is generally docked. The coat is short, hard and
wiry, never woolly or curly and the undercoat is dense.


[Illustration]

                            ITALIAN POINTER

Color: White with orange patches, white speckled with lemon, white and
liver, and roan with liver.

Height: 25 in.

Weight: 80 lbs.

The Italian Pointer is a strong, muscular and elegantly shaped dog, full
of character. The skull is slightly rounded, occipital bone well
developed with broad, long and straight muzzle. The eyes are oval in
shape, dark yellow in color, sympathetic and grave in expression. The
nose is of brown or flesh color, never black. The lips are pendulous,
thick and rounded. Ears long and broad, set on at the height of the eye,
hanging gracefully and round at the tips. The back and loins are broad
and muscular. The stern is thick and tapering and is generally docked to
about 7 in. in length.


[Illustration]

                               BOLOGNESE

Color: Self-colored white.

Height: 12 in. or under.

Weight: 8 lbs. or less.

This is a ladies’ toy dog. The head is rather broad and muzzle not too
long. The eyes are large, dark in color and watery. The ears hang, but
not too close to the head, which gives the head a square appearance, and
are well covered with long, curly hair. He is straight in the back and
deep in the chest. The tail is curled over the back and well coated, and
his coat should be long, silky and curly.




                           Netherlands Breeds


                  DRAUGHT DOG
                  BRUSSELS GRIFFON (Belgium)
                  TOY BRABANTINE (Belgium)
                  BELGIAN SHEEPDOG (Belgium)
                  SCHIPPERKE (Belgium)
                  PAPILLON (Belgium)
                  WIRE-HAIRED DUTCH TERRIER (Holland)
                  DUTCH SHEEPDOG (Holland)
                  DANISH POINTER (Denmark)


[Illustration]

                              DRAUGHT DOG

This is more or less of a nondescript variety, but he is worthy of a
place in the sun by reason of the inestimable service he renders to his
master or mistress. Daily he may be seen in Belgium and Holland drawing
the carts purveying milk, butter, vegetables and other similar household
necessities. He varies in height from about 24 in. to 32 in. and weighs
around 100 lbs. Fawns and brindles are the most common colors. In
general appearance he is a cobbily-built strong dog capable of great
endurance. Naturally he must be strongly made in back and loins, well
boned in legs and with feet well padded. The tail is generally docked to
about three inches. Chapters dealing with other purposes to which dogs
are put will be found in other parts of this work.


[Illustration]

                            BRUSSELS GRIFFON

Color: Red.

Weight: Under 9 lbs.

This is a ladies’ pet dog, very intelligent, sprightly, robust, of
compact appearance, and is peculiar for his quasi-human expression. His
head is rounded, furnished with hard, irregular hair, which is longer
around the eyes and on the nose and cheeks. The ears are erect when
cropped, but not otherwise. The eyes are very large, black and with long
and black eye lashes, and the hair on his nose should grow upwards,
towards his pronounced stop. His chin should be prominent, but must not
show the teeth. The tail is erect and cut two-thirds of its length.

There is no definite data as to this dog’s precise origin, and though
credit for his conception belongs to Brussels, it is highly probable
that he has been evolved by an admixture of the Yorkshire Terrier, Irish
Terrier and the Ruby Spaniel. His quaintness and degree of dignity,
altogether disproportionate to his size, account in a large measure for
the popular esteem in which he is held.


[Illustration]

                             TOY BRABANTINE

The Toy Brabantine resembles the Brussels Griffon in every respect,
except that his coat is short and smooth and his color red, or black and
tan.


[Illustration]

                            BELGIAN SHEEPDOG

Color: Reddish black, if possible with black muzzle.

Height: 21 in.

Weight: 54 lbs.

A very intelligent and rustic dog built to withstand the changeable
climate of Belgium. His sagacity, activity and enduring strength and
dauntless courage fit him peculiarly as a protector for his Belgian
master. The head is long, skull flat, not too broad, and moderate
“stop.” The eyes are brown, with an inquiring intelligent expression.
The ears should be stiff and carried erect, and triangular in shape,
neck rather long, chest broad and not too deep, back straight, broad,
strong, and of medium length. The tail is carried low in repose and
should never be curled over the back, and is never docked. There are
three varieties as to coat: A. Long and straight on the body, smooth on
the head, with the inside of the ears protected by dense hair, and with
considerable coat round the frill or mane. Forelegs well feathered and
very profuse tail. B. Smooth on the body, head and legs, little longer
round the neck, and slight feathering on the tail. C. A hard, dry and
bristling wire-coat of the stand-off variety, more or less the same
length all over the body, and with a bushy tail.


[Illustration]

                               SCHIPPERKE

Color: All black.

Height: 12 in.

Weight: 12 lbs.

This is an excellent little watch dog, very active and always on the
alert, very courageous, exceedingly inquisitive, and a good vermin dog.
The head is foxy, eyes dark brown, oval, and keen. Ears quite erect,
small, triangular and set on high, and very mobile. The body is short
and thick-set, chest broad, with straight back and powerful loins. He
has no tail. His coat should be dense and harsh on the body, very
profuse around the neck, forming a mane and frill, but short and smooth
on the ears and head.


[Illustration]

                                PAPILLON

Color: Self-colored red mahogany, ruby, chestnut red, dark yellow, or
white with these patches. Height: Not more than 10 in., the smaller the
better. Weight: 8 lbs. and under.

This is a lively and active ladies’ pet dog. The skull is small,
slightly domed, and muzzle rather snipy. The eyes are round, dark
colored, set low in the head, and convey a lively expression. The ears
are set high on the head, carried erect like the wings of a butterfly,
from which feature he is often styled the Butterfly Spaniel. The back is
straight and not too short or cobby. The tail is carried like that of
the squirrel and is long and heavily feathered, which again accounts for
him sometimes being called the Squirrel Spaniel. His coat should be long
and silky, abundant on the body and tail and ears, but short on the
mask.


[Illustration]

                       WIRE-HAIRED DUTCH TERRIER

Color: Red, yellow-brown, dirty yellow with moustaches, beard and eye
lashes often black.

Height: 17 in.

Weight: 27 lbs.

This is a rather commonly built dog, lively and intelligent; is a good
ratter and is a stable dog rather than a ladies’ pet. The head is rather
round and short, with stop well defined and the skull well covered with
a short and hard coat. The eyes are rather large and round, dark brown
in color, with an intelligent and lively expression. The ears are set on
high, carried erect, and cropped to points, covered with coat shorter
and softer than on the body. The tail is always docked, carried gaily
and should be well coated but without feathering. The coat is hard, wiry
and rough, never curly, wavy or woolly.


[Illustration]

                             DUTCH SHEEPDOG

Color: Immaterial, but no pie colors allowed.

Height: 21 in.

Weight: 52 lbs.

A strong, well-built dog, very active and intelligent. The head is
rather long and narrow, with flat skull, no stop, ears erect and of
medium size, pointed at the tip and set on high. The neck is muscular
and clean. Chest deep but not too broad, back strong, and on the short
side. The tail is carried low, and is never docked. There are three
varieties as to coat. A. A short, smooth coat like that of the smooth
collie; B. A long, rough coat similar to the rough collie but without
the frill; C. A wiry or broken coat with smooth mask, and with distinct
beard and eyebrows.


[Illustration]

                             DANISH POINTER

Color: Yellow-orange with white markings on the legs, feet, chest,
muzzle and tip of tail. Self-colored yellow-orange is objectionable.

Height: 26 in.

Weight: 60 lbs.

In general appearance the Danish Pointer is smaller in size than the
other varieties; the head is light and fairly long, muzzle long and
broad; eyes of medium size and brown topaz in color, giving a pleasant
expression, ears soft and hanging gracefully close to the cheeks and
moderately long; neck is long, round and arched, free from dewlaps; body
though light is powerful looking; back not too short and very strong,
with loins and hindquarters full of muscle; stern fine and rather short.




                        Austro-Hungarian Breeds


                           AUSTRIAN HOUND
                           HUNGARIAN SHEEPDOG
                           BOSNIAN HOUND
                           DALMATIAN


[Illustration]

                             AUSTRIAN HOUND

Color: Black with tan or yellow, brown and red in all shades and
self-colored white.

Height: 21 in.

Weight: About 50 lbs.

A dog of medium size, rather long, strong and of elastic structure. The
head is of medium size, broad in skull, eyebrows well defined, and with
pendulous lips. Eyes bright, brown and intelligent. Ears of medium
length, not too broad, round at the tips, and set high. The body is
strong, neck of medium length and very strong, chest broad and fairly
long in the back. Stern is long, strong at the root and tapering. The
coat: A. smooth, dense and glossy; B. semi-long, wiry and dull.


[Illustration]

                           HUNGARIAN SHEEPDOG

Color: White or dirty white, sometimes seen with a yellow tip on the
ears.

Height: 27 in.

Weight: 73 lbs.

This is a well-made muscular dog, with broad skull, long and tapering
muzzle. The eyes are small, set in obliquely and rather close together,
of dark color and of an energetic and sometimes sour expression. The
ears are small and carried close to the head and covered with smooth
hair. The back is long, straight and well developed. The tail is carried
low. His coat is fairly long, flat, dense and hard, sometimes wavy, but
never curly.


[Illustration]

                             BOSNIAN HOUND

Color: Red, brown white with yellow, or red patches and tri-color.
Height: 25 in. Weight: 65 lbs.

This is a well-built, lively dog and conveys the impression of great
stamina. The head is somewhat like that of the rough-coated German
pointer, eyes bright, yellow or light brown in color, and of medium
size. His heavy eyebrows give a rather threatening expression. Ears of
medium length, broad, rounded at the tips, set on high, and hanging
close to the head. He is broad in chest with neck long and well arched
and well rounded in rib. Stern of fair length, strong at the root and
carried downwards. The coat is hard, wiry and dense.


[Illustration]

                               DALMATIAN

Color: Color together with markings are most important. The ground
should be white. He should be spotted with either black or liver-colored
spots clearly defined and on no account should the spots run into each
other and they should be as round as possible.

Height: 22 in.

Weight: 55 lbs.

A strong, muscular, active dog capable of great endurance. In size,
build and outline he very much resembles the pointer.

The eyes are round, bright and sparkling, as dark as possible in the
black spotted dogs, though a yellow tint is allowed in the liver dogs.
Ears are set on high, of moderate size and carried close to the head, of
fine texture, and the more profusely they are spotted the better. His
back is strong and muscular, tail of fair length carried with a nice
curve upwards but not curled and should be well spotted. The coat is
short, hard, dense and fine in texture, but must not be woolly or silky.




                             Spanish Breeds


                            SPANISH POINTER
                            MEDELAN


[Illustration]

                            SPANISH POINTER

Color: Brown and white, red and white, black and white, and pure brown.
The white must not predominate.

Height: 24 in.

Weight: 80 lbs.

In general appearance the Spanish Pointer is a somewhat heavy, loosely
made dog, larger than the English Pointer. The head is indented between
the eyes, broad in skull, square, long and broad in muzzle with lips
large and pendulous. The eyes are large and somewhat sunken in the head.
Ears thin, loose and of moderate length. Chest broad and deep. Back and
hind quarters very muscular. The stern is strong at the root, tapering
towards the end and is frequently docked.


[Illustration]

                                MEDELAN

Color: A dirty color or grizzled red with white patches and always
shaded with black or darker color, like the St. Bernard and Mastiff.

Height: 27 in.

Weight: 180 lbs.

A powerful and imposing dog resembling in many features the Mastiff and
the Bordeaux, but is longer and harder in coat. The head is very heavy,
powerful, large and square, with skull broad between the ears. The
muzzle short, blunt, broad and square, and the lips have heavy pendulous
flews. Eyes are small and brown, and convey a grave and sometimes an
almost grumbling expression, and show the haw. Ears small, set on high,
and hang close to the head. Body is strong, neck strong, heavy and
muscular, chest deep and broad, back long, broad and powerful. Tail
long, heavy, and carried downwards. Coat is semi-long, dense and hard.




                              Swiss Breeds


                              ST. BERNARD
                              SWISS SETTER
                              LUCERN HOUND
                              BERN HOUND
                              SWISS HOUND


[Illustration]

                              ST. BERNARD

Color: Red, orange, various shades of brindle, or white with patches on
body, of the above named colors. He should have white muzzle, blaze up
face, collar, chest, forelegs, feet and end of tail, with black shadings
on face and ears.

Height: Not less than 30 in.

Weight: 200 lbs.

This dog is known as the “Saintly” breed and may by his size,
magnificent appearance, beautiful temper and docility be justly regarded
as one of the finest examples and most noble members of the canine
species. The head is large and massive, short and square in the muzzle,
with great depth from eye to lower jaw. The eyes are rather small,
deeply set and dark in color, the lower eyelid drooping, showing the
haw. His expression should betoken benevolence, dignity and
intelligence. Ears of medium size and not heavily feathered. Chest wide
and deep with level back, well rounded ribs, and very muscular loins. He
should be strong and straight on his legs. The tail is long and bushy,
carried low when in repose. There are two varieties as regards coat: A.
In the long-coated variety it should be dense and flat, rather fuller
around the neck, with the thighs well feathered; B. In the short-coated
variety, it should be close and hound-like and only slightly feathered
on thighs and tail.


[Illustration]

                              SWISS SETTER

Color: Mixed chestnut and grizzle, trout color, or white and chestnut
with grizzled patches.

Height: 24 in.

Weight: 52 lbs.

In general appearance the Swiss Setter is a well built, intelligent and
rustic looking dog. The head is rather light and short skull round and
broad, occipital bone well developed, and with a well defined stop. The
eyes should not be too small and should be brown or yellow brown in
color. Back straight, strong and muscular, chest well developed, but not
too broad, and well rounded in rib. The stern is often docked, otherwise
it should be carried scimitar shaped. The coat should be very dense, but
not hard.


[Illustration]

                              LUCERN HOUND

Color: Iron-gray, steel-blue, blue mottled with large dark or black
patches, and some have the head, body and paws with pale yellow or tan
markings. Height: 19 in. Weight: 45 lbs.

A dog of medium size and of fine structure. Head long, narrow and fine,
eyes bright, large and intelligent, and dark brown in color, ears set on
low, not too broad, are long and carried close to the head, with rounded
tips. He is straight and broad in back. Stern of medium length and
tapering to a point. The coat is short, smooth, fine and glossy.


[Illustration]

                               BERN HOUND

Color: Tri-color, white, black, brown-yellow, or tan. White with large
black patches and tan markings on the eyes, jaws, and inside of the
ears.

Height: 21 in.

Weight: 50 lbs.

This is a leggy and longish dog of elegant and muscular build. The head
is long, narrow and somewhat pinched. Skull high and occipital bone well
developed. The eyes are bright and dark. Ears set on backwards and are
long but not too broad. They are rather pointed at the tips. Is deep and
broad in chest, long and not too broad in back. Stern is not too heavy,
tapers to the point and is carried down. He is smooth, short and fine in
coat.


[Illustration]

                              SWISS HOUND

Color: White with large yellow, orange or tan patches. Frequently
spotted with red or yellow markings and a black shade with red color is
permissible. The skin is often spotted with black, giving him a blue
appearance when out of coat.

Height: 20 in.

Weight: 46 lbs.

A dog of medium size, strong but not heavily built. The skull is broad
and the occipital bone well developed, eyes rather large but not
prominent, hazel brown, bright and intelligent. The ears are not set on
too high, are thin and moderately long, and covered with fine hair.
Chest deep and not too broad, and is short and broad in back. Stern of
medium length, fairly short, strong at the root, and well coated. There
are two varieties as to coat: A. Smooth and dense, which is fine and
glossy on the head, ears and shoulders, and coarser on the back; B.
Medium length, coarse, hard and dull.




                             Russian Breeds


                       BORZOI (Russian Wolfhound)
                       RUSSIAN YELLOW RETRIEVER
                       RUSSIAN HOUND
                       OWTCHAR
                       SAMOYED


[Illustration]

                                 BORZOI

Color: Immaterial, except that self-colored specimens or those with
heavy, black markings are objectionable.

Height: 33 in.

Weight: 100 lbs.

The Borzoi is one of the most ancient of Russian breeds and should
possess great size, great speed and great strength. The head is of
extraordinary length, and should appear rather Roman nosed in profile.
The eyes are dark, expressive and almond-shaped; ears small, thin and
placed well back on the head; the chest is deep and narrow; the back
bony, and well arched; loins broad and very powerful, with well sprung
ribs; the tail is long and well feathered and carried low; the coat
should be long and silky, not woolly, and on the neck it should be
profuse and rather curly.

This breed, though originating from Russia, has been bred and exhibited
in England since 1872. The Duchess of Newcastle and, a little later,
Queen Alexandra, then the Princess of Wales, are mainly responsible for
the popular favor in which they are now regarded. The finest collection
in the world, however, is owned by the Grand Duke Nicholas, at Perchina,
near Moscow. These are said to excel even those possessed by the Czar,
from whom dogs cannot be purchased.


[Illustration]

                        RUSSIAN YELLOW RETRIEVER

Color: Yellow or rich red sable.

Height: 28 in.

Weight: 90 lbs.

This dog is similar in all essentials to the English Retriever, except
that he is a size bigger and heavier in coat, and of course different in
color, as his name implies. He is used principally for tracking wounded
deer.


[Illustration]

                             RUSSIAN HOUND

Color: Grizzle or black, with tan markings, often with a white collar,
feet and tip of tail.

Height: 20 in.

Weight: 58 lbs.

The head much resembles that of a wolf, being considerably broader
between the ears than at the forehead. Eyes of medium size, bright,
brown or yellow, sometimes nearly black. Ears small and hanging with a
tendency to prick when the dog is angry. Stern is short, strong at the
root, and carried straight. The coat is hard and smooth, with a woolly
under coat, and the wolf or fox brush.


[Illustration]

                       OWTCHAR (Russian Sheepdog)

Color: Slate color, dirty white, and nearly black.

Height: 32 in.

Weight: 105 lbs.

This is a large and strongly built dog of very great antiquity. His head
is massive, round, and covered with softer hair than on the body. The
eyes are rather large, dark brown in color, and very intelligent. The
ears are of fair size, hanging, well coated, and are sometimes cut and
carried semi-erect. He has a short, muscular neck, strong, well
developed body, and is the largest of all the varieties of the sheep
dogs, and is intended to defend his flocks against wolves. The tail is
often docked, otherwise it should be well coated, and his coat is very
dense and somewhat woolly.


[Illustration]

                                SAMOYED

Color: White or white with black, brown or wolf patches.

Height: 22 in.

Weight: 65 lbs.

A dog of medium size, well built and cobby, covered with a thick fur.
The head is slightly domed and fairly broad. He is rather small in eyes,
which should be dark in color and set obliquely in the head, and convey
a very intelligent and lively expression. The ears are erect, broad at
the root, and taper to a point. The neck is strong and muscular, the
chest broad and deep, and back short, straight and strong. Tail is short
and heavily coated, and carried curled over the back. His stand-off coat
is semi-long, dense and thick, and abundant around the neck, with a
short and dense undercoat.

Breeds of the Northern Latitudes of Europe and Asia

                           FINNISH POM
                           FINNISH ELKHOUND
                           NORWEGIAN ELKHOUND
                           SWEDIAN HOUND
                           NORWEGIAN HOUND
                           ICELAND DOG
                           DOG OF NOORLAND
                           LAPLAND SHEEPDOG
                           ESQUIMAU

[Illustration:

  _Dogs Sledging in the Icefields of the Northern Latitudes._
]


[Illustration]

                              FINNISH POM

Color: Foxy-red or yellow-red, often with a white patch on chest, feet
and tip of tail.

Height: 18 in.

Weight: 56 lbs.

A cobbily-built dog with an intrepid and audacious appearance. The head
of medium size, lean, not too round, and stop well defined. Eyes are
obliquely set in the head, giving him a mild, lively and intelligent
expression, and are dark or light brown in color. The ears are set on
high, carried erect, very mobile, and of moderate size. Has muscular
neck, chest deep but not too broad, and body straight, broad and short.
The tail is thick at the root, profusely covered with long hair, and
carried curled over the back. His coat is smooth on head and forelegs,
but long, dense and perfectly straight on the body with a dense and
fluffy undercoat. It should be very abundant around the neck, forming a
frill.


[Illustration]

                             FINNISH HOUND

Color: Red-brown, shade of yellow on muzzle and legs; white patches
permissible.

Height: 23 in.

Weight: 65 lbs.

A proportionately built dog with long, broad muzzle, light brown eyes,
deep chest, muscular loins, rather high on leg in proportion to his
body, medium length tail, carried like a saber. His coat is flat, smooth
though rather coarse on the back.


[Illustration]

                           NORWEGIAN ELKHOUND

Color: Grizzle in all its shade; grizzle-brown, grizzle-brown and black.
A white patch on the chest and feet is permissible. The undercoat should
be pale brown.

Height: 20 in.

Weight: 60 lbs.

In stature this dog is rather short, but he has much strength and
temerity. The head is carried high, is large and square, broad between
the ears, with “stop” well defined. Eyes should be dark brown or
yellow-brown and convey an active and courageous expression. The ears
are pointed, carried erect and very mobile. The body is short, and the
chest broad and deep. The stern is of medium length, thick and heavy and
carried curled over the back. His coat is short and flat on the head but
hard, coarse and rather long on the body.


[Illustration]

                             SWEDIAN HOUND

Color: Black—the head, chest and legs being tan or dark yellow. White
patches on the head, chest, feet and tip of tail are permissible. Also
tan or dark yellow with large white patches.

Height: 33 in.

Weight: 65 lbs.

This is a well-built dog with a noble head, which is long and lean. The
eyes are bright and for preference are dark in color. Chest deep and
straight and broad in the back. Stern of medium length, strong at the
root, and carried with a slight curve. His coat is thick, hard, dense
and glossy.


[Illustration]

                            NORWEGIAN HOUND

Color: Iron gray patches and spots on blue background; so-called “trout”
color with brown-brindle in patches, tan markings; blue-merle; black
with tan or brown markings; tan with white patches. Iron-gray with tan
markings is not desirable.

Height: 20 in.

Weight: 60 lbs.

This is a strongly built dog rather long in body, and with a grave and
intelligent expression. The head is large, of medium breadth, not domed
and with distinct “stop.” Eyes are brown. Blue-merle dogs have “China”
ears. Ears set on rather high, of medium length and breadth, and hang
close to the head. The chest is broad rather than deep. Stern of medium
length, carried rather high. The coat is thick and glossy.


[Illustration]

                              ICELAND DOG

Color: Brownish or gray, sometimes dirty white or dirty yellow, and is
frequently seen with black on the back.

Height: 14 in.

Weight: 45 lbs.

This is a lightly built dog with a “game” temperament. The head is large
in proportion to his body, with broad domed skull, and rather short,
snipy muzzle. The ears are large at the base, pointed and carried erect,
though sometimes semi-erect. He is large and deep in chest, short in
body, with bushy tail carried over the back. His coat is hard, of medium
length, flat and shorter on the head and legs.


[Illustration]

                            DOG OF NOORLAND

Color: All shades of grizzle with black or darker tips. The under coat
should be as white as possible. A yellow undercoat is a fault.

Height: 22 in.

Weight: 65 lbs.

A strong and well-built dog on rather cobby lines; the head is rather
small, slightly arched and without “stop.” Eyes should be dark brown,
bright and intelligent. Ears small, very mobile, carried erect and set
high on the head. Chest deep and broad. The tail is strong, medium
length, and curled over the back. The coat is short and thick on the
head, legs and feet, and more abundant on the body.


[Illustration]

                            LAPLAND SHEEPDOG

Color: Black, rusty black, grizzle with white feet. White dogs with
reddish brown patches and self-colored yellow-brown ones are highly
appreciated, but all white is a fault.

Height: 20 in.

Weight: 56 lbs.

This dog has a rather long body, which is well covered with thick,
abundant coat. The skull is broad and domed; ears erect; eyes large,
brown and intelligent; chest narrow and deep. His tail is sometimes
docked, but when not is well coated and curled over the back. The coat
on the head is short, but on the body should be long, thick and dense,
and never wavy, and he should have a very dense undercoat and a distinct
frill.


[Illustration]

                                ESQUIMAU

Color: Black or rusty black with white patches, and white chest.
Sometimes brown with gray patches and all white.

Height: 16 in.

Weight: 56 lbs.

This is a medium-sized, well-boned dog, with broad domed skull, rather
snipy muzzle, with well defined “stop.” The ears are broad, pointed and
carried erect, and the insides should be well coated. The eyes are
small, dark in color, and of intelligent expression. The chest is broad
rather than deep and the tail long, bushy and carried over the back. His
coat is dense, flat, hard and long, especially on the back, with dense,
woolly undercoat.




                    United States of America Breeds


                          BOSTON TERRIER
                          AMERICAN BLOODHOUND
                          CHESAPEAKE
                          AMERICAN FOXHOUND


[Illustration]

                             BOSTON TERRIER

Color: Brindle with even white markings.

Weight: Not exceeding 27 lbs., divided into three classes, as follows:
A. under 17 lbs.; B. 17 to 22 lbs.; C. 22 to 27 lbs.

The general appearance of the Boston Terrier should be that of a lively,
highly intelligent, smooth-coated, short headed, compactly built, short
tailed, well balanced dog. The head should indicate a high degree of
intelligence, the body rather short and well knit, limbs strong and
neatly turned. This dog should convey an appearance of determination,
strength and activity, with easy, graceful carriage. Color and even
white markings are given particular consideration in the matter of
general appearance. The skull is square, flat, free from wrinkles,
abrupt brow, eyes wide apart, large and round, and dark in color. The
muzzle is short, square, wide and deep, and free from wrinkles, and the
ears should be small and thin. The body is deep with wide chest, and
well sprung ribs. The tail is set on low, straight or screw, short, fine
and tapering, and the coat is short, smooth and of fine texture.


[Illustration]

                          AMERICAN BLOODHOUND

Color: Tan, black and tan. The black and tan must be well defined; white
is not allowed except a small spot on the breast. Height: 28 in. Weight:
60 lbs.

A dog showing much hound character, but is smaller and lighter in muzzle
and bone than the English Bloodhound. The skull should be rounded
crossways with the occiput slightly prominent. The eyes are piercing
with hound expression and hazel in color. The ears should reach to end
of muzzle and as much longer as possible; they are thin, covered with a
soft silky coat, and low set. The neck should be clean and of good
length without throatiness. Back broad, strong and short and hind
quarters very strong and muscular. The stern is not very strong in bone
at the root and of medium length. The coat is not rough, nor so fine as
to be silky, wiry or shaggy.


[Illustration]

                               CHESAPEAKE

Color: Nearly resembling wet sedge grass or discolored coat of the
Buffalo.

Height: 24 in.

Weight: 65 lbs.

A symmetrical and well built dog with a head somewhat broad, yellow
eyes, small ears placed well upon the head, of lively and intelligent
expression. Powerfully built, with a somewhat coarse coat which has a
tendency to waviness over the shoulders. His skin is protected from the
water by a short woolly and dense undercoat.


[Illustration]

                           AMERICAN FOXHOUND

Color: Not material, but usually black and tan and white. Height: Males,
24 in. Weight: 60 lbs.

The American Foxhound is a strong, clean-limbed dog, built on lighter
lines than his English brother and resembles him in all other
essentials.




                             Mexican Breeds


                            MEXICAN HAIRLESS
                            CHIHUAHUA


[Illustration]

                            MEXICAN HAIRLESS

Color: Generally color of elephant’s hide. The skin always feels cold
and is often mottled with flesh-colored, pink or grizzle patches.
Weight: From 8 to 20 lbs.

In body properties they somewhat resemble the black and tan “Manchester”
terrier. The “points” of this breed are not sufficiently well known to
have enabled breeders to formulate a standard.


[Illustration]

                               CHIHUAHUA

Color: Reddish black and fawn. Weight: From 1½ to 4 lbs.

This dog is strictly of Mexican origin, though it is also found in the
state of Texas. It is the most diminutive of all breeds. Is remarkably
game and exclusive in its affections. His legs are very slender and toe
nails very long and strong, features which seem to justify the belief
that in early days they inhabited the dense forests of northern Mexico.
The head is round with sharp pointed nose, and large erect ears.

This breed is famous as a performing dog, being very intelligent and
agile.




                             Japanese Breed


                            JAPANESE SPANIEL


[Illustration]

                            JAPANESE SPANIEL

Color: Black and white, or red and white. The term red includes all
shades of sable, brindle, lemon and orange, but the brighter and clearer
the red the better. The white should be clear white and whatever color
the patches are they should be evenly distributed over the body, cheeks
and ears.

This is a lively, highly bred little dog, of dainty, smart appearance,
compact carriage, profuse coat, and very stylish in movement. The head
should be large, broad, and slightly rounded, with strong and wide
muzzle, very short from eyes to nose. The under-jaw should be slightly
turned up, but the teeth should not be shown. The nose should be wide
and open, and must be the color of the dog’s markings. The eyes are
large, dark, lustrous, prominent and set wide apart. Ears small, nicely
feathered and set high on the head. The body is very compact and
squarely built with short cobby back. In fact the length of the dog
should be about equal to his total height. The tail is carried in a
tight curl over the back and should be profusely feathered, so as to
give the appearance of a beautiful plume.

During the last thirty years the popular taste for the Japanese Spaniel
has called for smaller and smaller specimens, until now the more
diminutive they are the more valuable have they become. In Japan they
are affected by the ladies as “sleeve” dogs, such being almost
priceless. It is not now uncommon to find them 2½ lbs. weight, though
fully matured. These small specimens are now also freely bred in
England, the climate of which country appears to suit them very well.




                             Chinese Breeds


                           PEKINGESE SPANIEL
                           HAPPA
                           CHOW-CHOW
                           PUG
                           CHINESE CRESTED
                           LITTLE LION DOG


[Illustration]

                               PEKINGESE

Color: All colors are allowable—red, fawn, black, black and tan, sable,
brindle, white and parti-colors. Those with black masks and “spectacles”
around the eyes and lines to ears are the most appreciated.

Weight: A. 10 to 18 lbs.; B. Under 10 lbs.

This is probably the most fashionable pet dog now in vogue. His
character is full of dignity and consummate pride, and disgust for
anything menial or common. His head is massive, broad, wide and flat
between the ears and eyes. The eyes should be large, dark, prominent,
round and lustrous. “Stop” deep. Ears heart-shaped, drooping and well
feathered. Muzzle very short, broad and wrinkled. He has a heavy-fronted
body and light hind quarters, and the great coat on the frill and neck
give him a lion-like appearance. The coat should be long, straight and
flat, with dense undercoat and well feathered on thighs, legs, tail and
toes.


[Illustration]

                                 HAPPA

The Happa is identical in every respect with the Pekingese Spaniel,
except that his coat is short and smooth.


[Illustration]

                               CHOW-CHOW

Colors: Black, red, yellow, blue, white. All self-colors.

Height: 20 in.

Weight: 50 lbs.

A lively, compact, short-bodied dog with well-knit frame, and tail
curled well over the back. The skull is flat and broad, well filled out
under the eyes, and broad at the snout. His tongue should be black, eyes
dark and small, though in the blue shades a lighter colored eye is
permissible. The ears are small, pointed and erect, and should be placed
well forward over the eyes, a feature which gives the dog a
characteristic expression or “scowl” peculiar to the breed. The chest is
broad and deep; back short, straight and strong, and his coat in the
rough variety should be abundant, dense, straight, coarse in texture,
with a soft woolly undercoat. Smooth-coated Chows are identically the
same as above, except that the coat should be smooth, short and dense.


[Illustration]

                                  PUG

Color: Silver fawn, apricot fawn, black.

Height: 12 in.

Weight: 17 lbs.

This is a square and cobby dog, short in body, and wide in chest. His
compactness of form and hardness of developed muscle are his chief
characteristics. The head is large, massive and round, muzzle short,
blunt and square, and he should have large and deep wrinkles. The eyes
are very large, dark, bold and prominent, with a soft and solicitous
expression, and when excited be full of “fire.” The ears are thin, small
and soft and of two varieties as regards carriage—“rose” and “button.”
The tail is curled as tightly as possible over the hip; a double curl is
considered perfection. His coat is fine, smooth, soft, short and glossy,
neither too hard nor too woolly.


[Illustration]

                          CHINESE CRESTED DOG

Height: 12 in.

Weight: 20 lbs.

This is a hairless breed, except that he has a silky top-knot or crest,
and some feathering or tuft at the root of the tail, which feature is
considered very typical of the breed. It is difficult to assign its
origin, but they are found freely in the South and Central American
States, Mexico, South Africa and China. The ears should be carried erect
and are never cut. The conformation of the body is like that of the
black and tan terrier, but the head is shorter and the skull more
rounded. The skin always feels cold and is of the color of the hide of
an elephant. Some are mottled with flesh-colored patches, and sometimes
the skin is of a pink color with grizzle patches.


[Illustration]

                            LITTLE LION DOG

Color: All colors, self-colored or parti-colors. The most preferable
being the self-colored white, black and lemon.

Height: 14 in.

Weight: 9 lbs.

This is a small ladies’ pet dog, very active and intelligent, generally
with one-third of his body clipped or shaved, which gives him the
appearance of a lion in miniature. The head is short and broad; eyes
large, round and intelligent, and dark in color, and his well feathered
ears are long and hanging. The tail is of medium length, is clipped at
the root, and well feathered at the tip. The coat is long and wavy, but
not curly.




                           Various Greyhounds


                            BALEARIC (Spain)
                            PHU-QUOC (Siam)
                            PERSIAN
                            PORTUGUESE
                            ARABIAN

In addition to the above named varieties of the Greyhound, there are
others known as Greyhounds of Crimea, of Caucasus, of Circassia, of
Tartary, of Kurdistan, and of Anatoly. None of these, however, have any
adopted “points,” but are rather the result of crossings between the
Borzoi and the different Asiatic greyhounds which are portrayed in other
parts of this work.

As a general rule these dogs are used for hunting various kinds of
fleet-footed game, sometimes in the interest of sport, but more
frequently in the protection of the homestead against wolves and other
kinds of wild beasts.


[Illustration]

                           BALEARIC GREYHOUND

Color: Red fawn or fawn with white patches.

Height: 25 in.

Weight: 66 lbs.

This is a lean-looking dog and by no means elegant. The skull is
slightly domed, narrow and long, and the jaws are long and powerful. His
almond-shaped, brown eyes convey a sour expression. The ears are
pointed, erect, set on high, turned outwards, and very movable. The head
is lean and straight, neck straight and rather short, with short and
powerful loins. The coat is short, hard and fairly long on the back,
neck and tail.


[Illustration]

                           PHU-QUOC GREYHOUND

Color: Reddish fawn with black muzzle and with dark strip down the back.

Height: 21 in.

Weight: 40 lbs.

This is a heavy kind of greyhound with a long, slightly domed skull,
broad muzzle, jaw is long and powerful, lips and tongue black and with
reddish eyes giving him a savage expression. The ears are carried erect,
shell shaped and somewhat pointed. He is coarse in body, very long and
flexible in neck, with broad and strong loins. The tail is short, very
movable and carried curled over the back. The coat on the body and legs
is very short and dense, and this dog is peculiar and different from any
other kind in that the hair on the back grows the wrong way, and is much
longer and harder there than on the rest of his body.


[Illustration]

                          PORTUGUESE GREYHOUND

Color: Reddish-roe, dark yellow, mouse grey, or black, with small white
patch only on the chest.

Height: 29 in.

Weight About 56 lbs.

A muscular and well-built dog, but rather coarse for a greyhound. The
head is narrow and pointed, jaws long, strong and powerful, and his
hazel-brown eyes convey a lively expression. The ears are large, carried
erect, sometimes semi-erect, pointed and set on not too high. The back
is long and slightly arched, with muscular and rather coarse body, tail
long and fine, carried upwards in a slight curve. Coat is smooth and in
others wire-haired or broken.


[Illustration]

                           PERSIAN GREYHOUND

Color: Black, various shades of fawn and sometimes a dirty white.

Height: 28 in.

Weight: 70 lbs.

This is a rather big dog, but delicate and elegant in outline. His head
is fine, light, lean and bony, with a slightly domed skull. The eyes are
mild, intelligent and dark brown. The ears hang close to the head, are
long and well feathered with wavy hair. The neck is arched, elegant and
slender. Chest deep and back straight, long and strong. He is moderately
long in tail, which is carried hanging like a sabre. The coat is smooth
and very soft, but is much longer on the ears and tail, where it is
silky and wavy.


[Illustration]

                           ARABIAN GREYHOUND

Color: Light yellow sand color with black mask and black eyelids.

Height: 28 in.

Weight: 65 lbs.

This is a dog of lean, elegant and alert appearance. He is higher on the
leg and shorter in the body than the English Greyhound. He is not as
long in the head but more domed in the skull than the English dog, and
seen in profile the head has some resemblance to that of the Jackal. The
eyes are large, dark amber in color, and intelligent in expression. He
is rather large in ears, which are folded well down on the neck. He is
strong and muscular in neck with hind quarters well developed. The tail
is fairly long, fine and carried curved downwards. The coat is smooth,
dense and fine.




[Illustration:

  _Belgian Dogs trained to draw quick-firing guns_
]

                            Dogs in Warfare

              _“Cry Havoc! and let slip the dogs of war”_


However trite may be the saying that history repeats itself, it is
unquestionably apposite in regard to the employment of dogs in warfare.
Great hounds were used to guard the camps of Rome. In even more
primitive times they were formidable adversaries in hand-to-hand
conflicts, while to come to more modern days Frederick the Great and
Napoleon—two of the greatest soldiers the world has ever seen—held a
very high opinion of the value of canine sentries. Napoleon, in fact, is
said to have urged Marmont to fasten dogs to stakes around the circuit
of the walls of Alexandria to keep guard.

Recent wars have served to emphasize the advantages which may be gained
by the use of the peculiar qualities of scent and hearing which dogs
possess. Their sense of scent we human beings lack almost entirely,
while they not only hear audible things more quickly than we do, but
also hear things which are quite inaudible to us. Is it to be wondered
at, therefore, that military experts have not been slow to recognize
such potential properties?


                          WHAT THEY HAVE DONE

The present-day tendency consequently is to bring dogs more and more
into the foreground in warfare. During the Russo-Japanese War the whole
of the Manchurian Railway line was guarded by dogs, who gave the alarm,
and on several occasions prevented the Japanese crossing the line. Those
which were sent out from England with the Abor Expedition, N. W.
Frontier, more than once prevented the sentries from being rushed during
night duty, owing to their keener sense of hearing. In the Tripoli
campaign their value was frequently demonstrated, while the dogs
belonging to Major Richardson, the famous English trainer of war dogs,
rendered yeoman service to the Bulgarians at the siege of Adrianople,
where they were able to give warning of attempted sorties by the Turks.
Some of Major Richardson’s well-trained animals were also used in the
Spanish trenches in Morocco, being responsible for the finding of
hundreds of wounded men who would otherwise have been left to their
fate.


                          USED BY GREAT ARMIES

At the present moment most of the modern armies employ dogs, although
naturally opinions differ as to the most suitable type of dog. The
Russians have adopted the Caucasian dog; Austria, Dalmatians; Turkey,
Asiatic Sheepdogs; France and Belgium, the smugglers’ dogs of the
Belgium frontier; while Germany uses Collies, Pointers and Airedales. So
far the British Army has ignored the value of trained dogs, though the
Admiralty some five years ago instituted a scheme for the use of dogs in
naval stations ashore. Major Richardson believes that the only really
useful dogs are the Airedale, Sheepdog, and Bloodhound.

What part dogs will play in the present great conflict time only will
show, but that it will probably be a large one may be gathered from the
fact that the German army alone possesses over 6,000.

[Illustration:

  _Corps of Sentry Dogs_
]

The importance of determining some efficient and economical form of
traction for Infantry machine guns had been under consideration in
Belgium before the war. Up till recently, pack-horse transport had been
considered the most satisfactory system. Exhaustive trials between this
method and that of wheel traction by a pair of dogs of a breed known in
that country as the Belgian Mastiff, have, however, resulted in favour
of the latter, and the final adoption of this mode of transport for the
Machine Gun Units of the Belgium Army. This form of traction is not
novel in Belgium in civil life. According to the Journal of the Royal
Artillery the breeding of dogs for light draught purposes has long been
in vogue in that country, for the purpose of conveying farm produce from
the country into the towns. Dog traction is employed by the country
people—milkmen, bakers, greengrocers, and many artisans with light
carts—in conducting their trade and business. There are reckoned to be
50,000 dogs available for this purpose in Belgium, of which 10,000 are
in Brussels alone. They are found to be admirably suited for the
purpose. Their bodies are thick-set, loins strong, and they have deep
chests, and muscular limbs. A dog of 110 lbs. weight is capable of
drawing on a good road a load of 880 lbs., and a horse 1,100 to 1,300
lbs. (or ten times and upwards the weight of one of these dogs), cannot
draw much more than the equivalent increase of his weight. With an
average load of 660 lbs. behind the team on good roads, a dog can keep
up for long distances a pace of 4 or 5 miles an hour; for several
hundred yards he can attain a speed of from 6 to 7 miles an hour.

The price of a pack-horse is not less than £40, and his daily forage may
be reckoned to cost about ¼–½ a day, without taking into consideration
the construction and upkeep of his stable. The pack-saddle costs about
£15, whereas dog harness can be purchased for the pair of dogs for
something less than £4. A male dog costs £4, and his food per day
amounts to about 4½d. Finally, the small carriage for the machine gun or
ammunition cart costs about £8, and the net cost for construction and
upkeep of kennels is something small. Moreover, as the dog does not
require shoes, lameness is rare, which we well know from the enormous
distances he can go when hunting. He is intelligent and docile, and puts
all his heart into serving his master faithfully under all
circumstances. The length of his military service may be taken at from
eight to nine years. The discipline of the trained dog is such that an
untrained dog, harnessed with him, would be compelled to submit to all
the movements of the former. On the march, and under fire, one can rely
on his working till absolutely exhausted or mortally wounded. These are
the qualities which can be developed in the breeding kennel, and in his
subsequent training. The four wheels of the little gun carriage are made
of tubes of steel, light, low and stable, and fitted with pneumatic
tires. The carriage complete does not weigh more than 220 lbs., and is
easily dragged by the team of two dogs, or eventually carried by the
four members of the detachment. Its height and breadth are each about 31
inches. The trials were carried out to test the following: Visibility,
mobility on roads and across country, overcoming obstacles, and
resistance to fatigue. They lasted three weeks in bad weather, during
which a distance of 250 miles was covered. The six pack-horses were
wither-galled, and had to be successively replaced but not so the dogs.
On the march across country, or commons, of from 1½ to 3 miles, where
the ground presented obstacles or was broken up, the dogs gained without
doubt in mobility and speed over the horses, especially when ditches,
hedges and low walls had to be negotiated. The teams crossed with ease
ploughed land and crops, copses and banks. Assisted by the detachments
they crossed over deep ditches and steep slopes. The horses showed signs
of fatigue long before the dogs. The latter were afraid of nothing, and
followed perfectly the member of the detachment charged with leading
each team. They lay down or resumed the order of march on a signal,
without even barking, and in perfect order.

The smallest fold in the ground concealed the teams, and at 300 yards
distance, nothing of them could be distinguished. Coming into or out of
action was more rapidly effected than in the case of the pack-horses.

[Illustration:

  _Dog Harness_
]

The regiments to which they were attached had three sections, each of 2
guns and 4 ammunition carts, requiring 36 dogs for the 18 vehicles.

In action the dogs gave every satisfaction, and whilst halted in
positions of readiness for often considerable periods, they lay down
quietly waiting in their harness.

In coming into action the Nos. 1 had sometimes to creep on in front,
accompanied by the team driver of each gun, in order to choose their
positions in actions. At a signal, the teams moved quickly up into the
emplacements when, the detachments having brought the guns into action,
the empty carriages with their drivers proceeded to the rear and
rejoined the ammunition carts under cover.

The trials indeed were so successful that orders were issued to erect,
for all infantry regiments, kennels for a dozen dogs per unit, and at
Beverloo a remount and training establishment for these dogs was to be
formed.

It is even reported in the course of the campaign, in Belgium that the
war dogs of the machine guns took a still more active part by “going
for” German soldiery.

[Illustration:

  _The Ambulance Dog at Work_
]


                             AMBULANCE DOGS

Not until the history of the present European war comes to be written
will it be known just how great have been the services of the dog for
ambulance work. Shortly after the outbreak of this, the world’s greatest
war, an Association in Germany, formed about the year 1893, known as the
Ambulance Dogs’ Association, greatly increased its activities.

It has been found by experience that the best breeds for ambulance work
are collies, retrievers, bloodhounds, Airedale terriers, German shepherd
dogs and Dobermann Pinschers. It is absolutely essential that ambulance
dogs should be extremely wiry and hardy, and capable of great hardship
and endurance, otherwise they are of little use.

The manner in which ambulance, dogs are employed is to help the Red
Cross men and doctors to search for wounded within a given area on the
battlefield. A dog’s sense of scent and acute hearing enable him
frequently to detect the sound of the breathing of a wounded man when
inaudible to the human ear. Moreover, a puff of wind often suffices to
carry to the dog’s nose the scent of a man lying possibly unconscious in
some concealed place.

Fields of battle nowadays are widely extended, and soldiers have to take
advantage of every possible bit of natural cover. The instinct of the
wounded is to use their last strength in seeking protection from
artillery fire, cavalry charges, the wheels of guns, and the other
horrors to which they are exposed. They crawl away into the most hidden,
safest places. The collection of the wounded is usually at night. This
accounts for the large numbers that after each battle are reported as
“missing.” In some instances the missing have been more than half as
many as the known total of killed and wounded.

They are differently equipped in the armies of different countries. The
Germans provide their ambulance dogs with a saddle with pockets in which
are bandages and dressings, while around the neck is a wooden flask of
stimulant. The Italians and French put the flask in a pocket of the
saddle. British experts consider bandages and stimulant unnecessary, as
every man has to carry his own first-aid dressing, and the extra weight
hinders the dog’s action. In the English army the dogs wear a very light
saddle with the Geneva cross on each side, and a loud bell hangs from a
leather collar. The Russians provide their ambulance dogs with small
lanterns and attach the bells elsewhere on the collar.

In some of the European armies the ambulance dog is trained to return to
his master and guide him to the wounded man; in others he is taught to
bark and give the news of his discovery in that way. Still another
method is to have the dog on a long leash and thus lead the searcher in
the right direction.

The Japanese also use scouting dogs in this way, and so do many of the
European armies. They are trained to growl at any sudden surprise, their
natural temptation to bark being thwarted by muzzling with a leather
strap. In sentry duty the muzzle is moved. With an upwind blowing these
sentry dogs are able to detect the approach of men and horses an
extraordinary distance away.

On the whole, it is found that the speediest method is for the dog to
stay beside his “quarry” when found, and bark until the ambulance
arrives, but there is the drawback that if several dogs are being
employed in a restricted area and several bark simultaneously, it is not
always easy to locate whence the barking comes.

The Germans, unlike the French, do not permit their dogs to wear even a
collar, as it is thought that this may hinder him in pushing his way
through the thicket or hedges. It has often happened that the wounded
are found adjacent to some hedge or other cover not easy to search by
human aid alone. On the other hand, the French fasten water bottles
around the neck of the dog and train him to search for wounded, who, if
still conscious, eagerly grasps the welcome and ofttimes life-saving
beverage.

Constant practice in this, as in other kinds of dog training, is an
absolute essential. As the war proceeds more and more use will be made
of the special functions and gifts of dogs, a resumé of which, when
peace again reigns, will surely prove one of the most interesting phases
of the hostilities now taking place in Europe.

In the annals of the French army Mustache is still a celebrity. Mustache
was one of the war dogs in the Italian campaign when Napoleon was first
consul. He saved the French army from a night surprise and annihilation.
Later he tracked and captured a spy who had secured valuable
information. But this dog’s crowning achievement was at the battle of
Austerlitz.

The standard bearer of the regiment had just fallen dead. Mustache’s
teeth and an Austrian soldier’s hands grasped the tattered, bloodstained
banner simultaneously. Mustache flew at his enemy’s throat and bore him
down. Then, seizing the flag, he carried it back to the regiment.
Napoleon gave Mustache the highest decoration for valor. He met a
soldier’s death not long afterward, racing forward beside the flag,
leading the regiment in a furious charge.

[Illustration:

  _The Canine Ambulance Division of the French Army Off to the Front._
]




                           British Sheep Dogs


Public trials of working sheep dogs were first introduced by Mr. Lloyd
Price, of Rhiwlas, Bala, North Wales, in 1873. The object for which they
were originally instituted was to promote a better training of sheep
dogs amongst the Welsh farmers.

Strange as it may seem, though the mountainous districts of Wales have
been devoted from time immemorial almost exclusively to sheep rearing,
the old-time farmers took little trouble in the training of dogs to
collect and work their sheep. In fact, previous to the inauguration of
the competitions, the duties of the Welsh sheep dog were confined
principally to the task of hunting and chasing sheep back again up the
mountains whenever they strayed down to graze upon the more fertile
pastures in the valley which the farmers reserved for their cattle. This
was well enough so long as the sheep were roaming at will among their
native haunts and feeding grounds, but whenever it was necessary for the
farmer to gather his flock together the trouble began. The hardy little
animals are wild and timid creatures that are not easily induced to
leave their mountain home; moreover, when at liberty they are scattered
in small lots over immense tracts of country.

To gather sheep from the mountains with the aid of dogs alone was in
those days, with few exceptions, an utter impossibility, consequently as
many as ten or twelve men had to be employed to scour the mountains, and
even then many stragglers were inevitably left behind. Nowadays all that
is changed, one man can with the assistance of a good sheep dog do the
same work much more thoroughly and satisfactorily, and without hustling
or distressing the sheep themselves.

The systematic training of sheep dogs has indeed accomplished for the
sheep-rearing hill farmer almost as much in the way of labor-saving as
the adoption of agricultural machinery has done for the farmer who
cultivates the lowlands.

The sagacity displayed by a really good sheepdog gathering sheep upon a
mountain side, often a mile or more away from his master, must be seen
to be believed. When the farmer goes out to gather his flock for
shearing or other purposes, far away upon the bleak hillside, little
clusters of white spots are all that are to be seen. The farmer takes up
a position upon some point of vantage, gives a word or whistle or
instruction to his four-footed companion, and the dog bounds away in
response till he seems no more than a tiny moving speck occasionally
visible in the distance. Sharp and shrill the farmer’s whistle pierces
the keen mountain air, and ever and anon, as though by magic, the little
white dots begin to move and converge towards a common center. In
response to one signal the sound of the dog’s answering bark can be
heard; another signal and he drops as though shot, and is as silent as
the grave. In the dim distance a few small dots can be seen; they are
some stragglers that have been overlooked; a whistle galvanizes them
also into motion, but in the wrong direction; a moment later and they
are merged into one motionless white blot upon the dark mountain side.
The blot moves again, not quite in the desired direction; whistle
succeeds whistle in quick succession, and at each one the little moving
blot alters its course, zig-zagging this way and that, until it finally
becomes merged in the large white patch that marks the remainder of the
flock, which keeps on the move, drawing nearer and nearer until the
sheep take shape and can be seen coming down steadily with the dog
dodging in their rear, till they are rounded up and brought to a
standstill within reach of the farmer’s stick. Such a sight is common
today upon the Welsh mountain or in the Scottish Highlands, though it is
not given to every man to acquire perfect mastery over his animal; so
much depends upon both man and dog. A dog belonging to a man who takes
no interest, or has not the knack and patience necessary to teach him is
worse than useless. The dog often reflects to a great extent his
master’s character. An excitable, hasty-tempered man generally has a
headstrong, willful dog that is hard to control. Some dogs, born of a
long line of carefully-trained sheep dogs, take to working sheep as
ducks do to water; a savage, uncontrollable brute, whose only ambition
seems to be to worry and abuse the sheep, and there are hundreds of such
animals, is simply a hindrance and a source of trouble to its owner, as
anyone who is acquainted with sheep and their ways knows full well.

The sheep dog proper must above all things be gentle and patient with
its often cantankerous charges, yet firm and masterful enough to inspire
the timid sheep with sufficient sense of fear to cause them to move away
in another direction at its appearance and approach without creating
such a panic-stricken stampede. Such strains of dogs are scarce and
highly prized by their owners, though from the show bench fancier’s
point of view their often nondescript exterior cannot be classified into
those niceties of shape and color in which the judge of show dogs
delight. Many a sheep dog that would not attract a second glance from a
professional dog judge has won enough in money prizes to turn the whole
fraternity green with envy.

Such a dog is, for instance, Mr. J. Moses’ “Old Jem,” not beautiful to
look at, but of sterling quality, which has won for his master over
$1,000 in cash quite irrespective of the value of himself and his
progeny.

Sheepdog trials are now held in all parts of the British Empire, Canada,
New Zealand, Australia; in fact, wherever sheep are reared in any
quantity.

Perhaps one of the most favorable opportunities the general public has
of watching one of these absorbingly interesting spectacles is during
the well-known agricultural show held each year in Lord Rothchild’s
beautiful park at Tring, England. A description of an actual trial
witnessed by the writer in these ideal surroundings will give an idea of
the exciting nature of the tests and high standard of perfection to
which the numerous entries have to be trained before they can compete
with the remotest chance of success.

[Illustration:

  _When “Penning,” the Man Is Allowed to Assist the Dog._
]

A portion of the vast park, some three-quarters of a mile long and about
half as wide, remote from the show ground where the exhibits are
localized, is divided off by a rope fence; this constitutes the course,
of which thousands can obtain a full and uninterrupted view. The
competitor takes up his stand near the center with his dog or dogs, for
there are prizes for two dogs working together as well as for single dog
trials. The number of sheep that have to be driven round the course is
three only; this small number greatly increases the difficulties of the
subsequent maneuvers. Fresh sheep are provided for each competitor,
usually those of the wild, hardy mountain variety.

At a given signal the animals are released from a cart that is out of
sight in a clump of trees on a hill some half a mile distant. The dog
must then locate the sheep, the master remaining in the center of the
course guiding and directing him by voice or whistle as he chooses. The
obstacles consist of, first, what is termed “a false fence”; that is to
say, two short lines of hurdles so placed as to leave a wide gap through
which the dog must drive the sheep; should he allow them to run round
the end of one of the lines instead of through the center, the sheep
must be driven back and another attempt made. The second obstacle is a
flag-post, round which the sheep must be driven in a circle before being
conducted through a V-shaped gap made with two hurdles.

If the dog has negotiated these obstacles successfully he will have
brought his charges to within about a hundred yards of his master.
Having been successful in bringing the sheep so far, a very different
task awaits both dog and master at the “Maltese Cross.” At this, and the
final “penning up” of the sheep, the master is permitted by the rules of
the trials, to assist his dog personally. The “Maltese Cross” consists
of two lanes intersecting at right angles, each passage being only just
sufficiently wide to permit the sheep to pass in single file. It must
not be imagined that the wild mountain sheep, terrified at their
unwonted surroundings and the presence of a strange dog, submit tamely
to being thus driven past alternative openings without strenuous efforts
to break away and bolt in whichever direction their erratic fancy
dictates. The master must be on the alert for these attempts, and be
quick and decisive in giving his dog instruction as to how to frustrate
these sudden rushes. It is upon the promptitude and correctness with
which the dog responds to the signals that success or failure depends.
It is at the cross that the innate perversity of the sheep’s nature
asserts itself, with the result that the first animal very frequently
turns down one or other of the cross lanes instead of going straight
through. When this occurs the other two naturally follow, and all three
must be induced to negotiate the passage again. Having driven the sheep
through straight in one direction, the dog and his master must then
bring them back and run them through the other lane at right angles to
the original course. Finally, the even more difficult task of “penning
up” awaits the competitors. The final pen is formed of four hurdles with
a space just sufficient to admit one sheep at a time left open. The
slightest over-anxiety on the part of the dog or his master is fatal at
this stage of the trial. The difficulty of exercising the necessary
self-restraint will be the more readily realized when one considers that
it is often a matter of working against time, as should a dog have been
a little slow or unfortunate in his previous maneuvers he is extremely
liable to exceed the time limit set for the competition, and thus lose
the points awarded for penning.

[Illustration:

  _The Sheep Being Driven Through the Maltese Cross._
]

It cannot be laid down as an infallible rule that the best dog for
actual field work will always win a competition, so much relies on the
master and other incidental details which affect the judge’s decision.

The most important consideration from the competitor’s point of view is
the individuality of the three sheep which the dog is called upon to
work. Some, when released, are found to be extremely wild, and cause the
dog a lot of trouble by frantic efforts to escape. Others often adopt an
aggressive attitude towards the dog, and persist in facing round and
charging at him instead of allowing themselves to be driven. This type
of sheep is most exasperating, both to dog and man. Again, many dogs,
more especially young ones, are excitable by the applause of the
spectators.

To see sheep dogs work to perfection one should watch them, as the
writer has been privileged to do, being practiced and trained upon their
own home ground, where one can realize more fully the practical utility
of a well-trained dog and the amount of labor which he saves his owner.
The north of England and some parts of Scotland have always been noted
for good dogs, the original strain being a cross between the smooth
collie and the old Scotch bearded collie. These animals are naturally
hardy, fleet-footed and sagacious, and for real skill in working sheep
will hold their own against any dogs in the world.

One of the most prominent and successful trainers is Mr. J. Moses, of
Oswestry, who is manager of Lord Harlech’s Home Farm at Brogyntyn, and
the accompanying photographs show some of his famous dogs at work on the
farm. Mr. Moses is a great advocate of teaching a dog to work entirely
by whistle, instead of giving commands in ordinary language. The great
advantage of this system is that the dog can hear and recognize the
signals at a much greater distance, and when once accustomed to them is
much less liable to misinterpret his master’s meaning than is the case
when the command is given vocally. Many people seem to find a difficulty
in training their dogs to work by whistle, but if the system is started
at the commencement of a young dog’s training he will soon learn to
appreciate the distinctions of sounds and obey them more readily.

In order to demonstrate the perfect command that my friend had over the
actions of his dog, even at a great distance, for it must have been over
three-quarters of a mile, Mr. Moses made “Trim” execute a series of
maneuvers, instructing the dog to drive the sheep round a telegraph
post, in and out of two trees, take them back again to the original spot
in which they were first located, and finally drive them straight up to
within reach of his master’s stick. Each and every one of these
evolutions was carried out with such skill, intelligence and obedience
on the part of the dog that it seemed hard at first to realize that
“Trim” was actually obeying implicitly his master’s command, and not
just driving the sheep about for his own pleasure.

The maneuvering of sheep at a distance is a feature in sheepdog trials
for which more points than are now granted should be given, as it
demonstrates unmistakably the excellence of the training and also the
actual utility of a dog for field work. Many dogs are under perfect
control as long as they are within reach of their master’s stick, but
cannot be relied upon implicitly when far away; such a dog is obviously
improperly trained.

Patience and firmness are the keynotes of success in training a sheep
dog, though everything relies, in the first instance, upon the
suitability of the dog taken in hand, for good sheep dogs are born as
well as made, and a well-bred puppy will have a natural instinct for the
work, which will reveal itself at an early age.

In the next chapter will be found some useful hints on the training of
the working sheep dog.




                   Training the Working Shepherd Dog


Certain technical terms are used in the following article which it may
be well to explain for the benefit of those not familiar with the
shepherd’s vocabulary.

1. The “run out” means that the dog is sent away to gather the sheep.
“Running out” is the act of going for the sheep.

2. “Hauling” in its widest sense means the dog going out for his sheep,
taking command of them and bringing them to the shepherd. In the
narrower sense, however, the term is confined to the bringing in of the
sheep by the dog.

3. “Shedding” means the dividing of a lot of sheep. Supposing, for
example, a shepherd wishes to separate lambs from their mothers, the act
of doing so by the dog is called “shedding.”

4. “Wearing” means keeping a sheep from going in the wrong direction.
Supposing, for example, a sheep bolts up a wrong road, the dog is sent
to turn it back. Turning back is the “wearing.”

5. A “cut” simply refers to a number of sheep. Supposing, for example, a
shepherd herds five or six hundred sheep and goes for forty or fifty to
take them to the market. The number so taken is called a “cut.”

6. “Flying off” means where the dog yields to the sheep instead of
facing up to them. In “wearing” this is best seen. A dog which will not
come in close to stubborn sheep, yields to them when pressed, is said to
“fly off.”

7. A “soft-tempered” dog is one which shows little grit when pressed by
wild or stubborn sheep. It won’t stand up to them and shows little
fight, and generally evidence of a soft disposition. The contrary
expression is “hard tempered,” which means a dog that will not yield to
wild or stubborn sheep, but will face up to them, and as a last resort
will even grip and show his teeth and other signs of temper and
determination.

Believing that some instruction as to the methods employed in the
training of the working collie will be helpful to those who desire to
bring out the best gifts with which Nature has endowed this king of all
utility dogs, we append a few suggestions from the curriculum of Mr. T.
P. Brown, of Oxton, Berwickshire, Scotland, than whom no one is more
qualified to speak on this important subject.

In the first place, it must be acknowledged that unless the master has
himself studied the subject with the utmost care and keen perception,
success in teaching a dog to work sheep will not fall to his lot. Many a
good dog has been spoiled in the hands of an unthinking and
unsympathetic would-be trainer, and, conversely, many a vicious, timid,
or “wild” dog has been converted by the master hand into a brainy,
intelligent servant.

With few exceptions, any collie can be taught to work sheep; therefore,
as a general proposition, it is the man who makes or mars the dog’s
natural bent.

To achieve the greatest measure of success the sooner one starts the
elementary first lessons the better. The puppy should be taken in hand
when three or four months old.

The very first step is to teach him to run up to you. Use a thin, low
whistle with the lips, and pat and make a fuss of him when he comes up.

The second lesson is to get him to go down quickly. This is best done by
a hiss. If he does not put his head down, press it gently down with your
hand. This has generally to be repeated a good many times before he does
it nicely. Some pups go down of their own accord when they see the
sheep. This is no real drawback, but as a rule they require a little
more training to go down _when commanded_, instead of waiting till they
get to a place where they want to go down.

After the pup has learned to go down nicely, put him down and walk away,
and see if he will lie still until you give him the whistle to come up,
and don’t rest satisfied until he does so with alacrity.

When he has learned to do this to please you, begin to stop him half-way
up, and always see that he puts his head in the proper position. He
should be proficient in this before he is ever taken to the sheep. No
pup should ever be taken to the sheep until he is under complete control
in the run up and lay down. To introduce him to sheep until he has
thoroughly mastered these simple but highly-important commands has a
tendency to spoil him and get him into bad habits. No matter how fast he
is running, if you give him the hiss to stop he should drop like a
stone; and, on the other hand, he should obey the command to come on
quickly and without the least hesitation, and on no account should he
rise until told to do so. To fall and rise when commanded, and _only_
when commanded, is the most important point in the training of a collie.
Having progressed so far, the pup should now be taken to the sheep.

If he is off a good working strain, he will either circle away round his
“quarry” or he will “set” and crawl forward.

If he circles round and goes down, and the sheep do not come away, he is
apt to lie still, but if you use the call whistle and bring him a little
forward, then drop him. The sheep will most likely come away, and you
must take care that he comes straight behind them, and not too quickly.

Don’t use the call whistle very long at first, just a little to get him
to understand to start the sheep. Get him used to start either with a
sheep or a short whistle.

If in running up to the sheep he does not go right round, you must go up
to the sheep and move them in the direction you want them to go. Then
use the whistle, sound or words by which you want to shift him (some
trainers say “Keep wide” or “Keep wide, away out,” but it is better to
use only distinctive whistles).

You should thus keep the sheep moving about, making him move to what
spot you want. Others use a combination of whistles and signs (motions
of the arms). This latter method has its advantages when working at a
distance and under certain climatic conditions.

When the dog has become expert in moving about, teach him to “run out.”
Don’t try him too far away at first, and if possible let him see the
sheep.

A perfect run out should be in the form of a good wide circle all the
way until he gets well behind the sheep. Then he should double back
behind the sheep when he sees he has them all rounded up, and he should
be allowed to move them a little before you put him down.

In “haulding” them he should come straight behind the sheep, and not too
near them. If they come steadily, he should be allowed to follow them
in. When “haulding” a few sheep, say five, he should bring them in
straight; but with a large number he should “flank” them from side to
side in half-moon circles, as by this means he gets them forward in
better time.

By this time the dog should have learned to go down at a distance from
the shepherd, a distance which is only restricted by the impossibility
of hearing the whistle.

In all these processes one requires four different kinds of whistles—one
for the “call,” one to go out, one to stop and lie down, and one to
hauld.

To teach a dog “to shed,” get the sheep to pass quietly between yourself
and the dog several times; the dog during this time must lie down.

Then divide the sheep and give him the call whistle to come in to you,
and drop him when he is in between the two lots. Then go behind one of
the lots and press them on to the dog and get him “to wear” and turn
them to you.

Repeat this several times, and in giving the call whistle make sure that
he never rises until commanded, for a dog that moves about as the sheep
move will never be a good “shedder,” as he always mixes the sheep up
when you are preparing for a “cut.” Be sure also that he shifts every
time you ask him, and that he turns the sheep in to you, instead of
flying off them.

At this stage in his education the dog should be approaching his
complete training. To teach him to come in front of the sheep, draw him
to you by the call whistle. He will think at first that he is to come in
to you, but when you see he is far enough past the sheep to give him
plenty of room to work, give him the whistle to go to the sheep. He will
then turn and face the sheep, and as he does so drop him there. After
being several times repeated he will do this as readily as he has
learned to go round behind the sheep.

The next lesson is to teach him to go from one side to the other,
passing between you and the sheep.

Let him go half round the sheep, then get him to go forward on the sheep
from any point he is stopped, by either driving straight from you or
from the left side to the right side. This feat is most necessary for
driving away or for pole work at a trial.

The art of wearing a single sheep has not been touched on, because
unless the dog is naturally gifted with this it is almost impossible to
make him proficient at it, though one can help him a little.

Much depends on the nerve and compelling power of the dog’s eye. Leave
him pretty well to his own resources until he has the sheep stopped
before you drop him.

Some pups are naturally born with tendencies to wearing single sheep,
including to run too wide or too near, and, worst of all, stopping
before they go round the sheep. Be guarded to immediately check these
faults, and remember that command is the most important lesson of all.

One hears a great deal about bad-tempered dogs and soft-tempered ones,
but it is not so much a display of temper as nervousness. If a dog keeps
his eye on the sheep, no matter how soft he is in the temper, any
capable trainer can make him a good dog, but the one who won’t keep his
eye on the sheep can never become proficient in his service to his lord
and master.




                              Police Dogs


It is admitted on all hands that the dog is capable of training to do
his master’s bidding in a great many different ways.

Other chapters appear in this work detailing with what purpose he is
used as an aid to the hunter, sportsman, courser, for the drawing of
quick-firing guns into the firing line, for ambulance work, for sentry
duty, as an indispensable aid in all Arctic and Antarctic expeditions,
to say nothing of the sport certain breeds give us as racing and
performing dogs.

The purport of this chapter is to indicate with what success he is being
trained as a branch of the police force. Thousands of dogs, mostly of
the German and Belgian sheepdog variety, are at this present time
enrolled in the widely scattered police and other municipal forces of
America and other countries.

In the training of dogs for this work a special aptitude on the part of
the “handler” or “guide” is essential. Given a reasonable amount of
common sense, unlimited patience and an understanding of a dog’s nature,
success is assured in a large majority of cases.

The police dog trial is an old story so far as Germany, Belgium and
Holland are concerned. Americans are now taking this highly instructive
work in hand and the displays create a tremendous amount of enthusiastic
interest. The objects of such trials are:

1. Obedience exercises.

2. Detective work.

3. Protective work.

The obedience exercises called for are:

1. Heeling on leash.

2. Heeling without leash. The guide turns to right or left. Runs, walks
and stops with the object of confusing the dog.

[Illustration:

  _The Police Dog is Trained to Attack on Command_
]

3. Refusing food offered by strangers or thrown or found on the ground.
The dog is made to lie down both free and in the absence of the guide,
and he must refuse bread, meat or other tempting morsels of food. Then a
dish of food is placed within his reach, but he must not touch it under
penalty of lost points.

4. Guarding objects. This is considered a most important acquisition.
Every possible effort is made to remove the object by the judge. The dog
is chained beside the object, which is well within his reach, and he is
taught to lie down quietly beside it and not to move or growl or show
his teeth until the judge makes an effort to take the object away
quietly. If a vigorous attempt is made to snatch the object then the dog
is to defend it and himself in energetic fashion. Even when the judge
threatens the dog with a stick, or by coaxing, the faithful tyke will be
proof against them all. Bad marks are recorded if he gnaws the object or
otherwise misuses it.

5. Giving “tongue” on command. This must be done continuously on
command. It is insufficient for him to bark once and imitation barking
by the guide is forbidden.

6. Retrieving objects weighing two pounds. The dog must sit down quietly
and await instructions. Then he must bring it coming over a fence or
hedge promptly and sit down again before his guide until relieved of the
object. The varying heights of the fence or wall provide a number of
diverse exercises in the retrieving lesson.

9. Scaling wall.

10. Going ahead. The guide walks across the trial ground with the dog at
heel. On command the dog runs ahead in the direction given to a distance
of about 30 yards. He shall “drop” immediately on command and stay there
until told to rise.

11. Lying down. The dog is shown free in this exercise and immediately
on command he must rise and go away.

The detective work is conducted as follows:

1. Searching for objects left by a stranger at the end of a trail of 250
yards long and half an hour old. The trailer proceeds on a track,
directed by the judge, walk at his natural pace and at the end of the
trail stand still for one minute, wipe his feet well on the ground,
place the object between his footprints and then take the shortest cut
to a place again directed by the judge. An interesting variation of this
is provided by the object being placed thirty yards away from the end of
trail and at right angles thereto.

[Illustration:

  _Police Dog Scaling Fence 8 ft. 6 in. High_
]

2. Search for object left by a stranger on a trail 500 yards long, and
barking at the trailer when found. This is done both with the dog free
and also when on leash ten yards long, and it is particularly desirable
that the dog be taught to bark on finding the object or person
discovered.

The protective work comprises:

1. Scouting over ground and barking at any large object found. The dog
follows the direction indicated by the guide and covers the ground
carefully, searching every nook and corner not so as to encircle the
guide at a short distance. Three hiding places are provided. As soon as
the dog finds the hidden person he is taught to watch him and by barking
attract the guide’s attention.

2. Transporting “prisoner” without nipping. When found, the dog follows
behind the “prisoner” quietly without barking or nipping. Any object
dropped inconspicuously must be picked up at once by the dog and brought
to the guide, then continue the transport without waiting for the
command. If the “prisoner” attempts to escape, or attacks the guide, the
dog must attack him immediately, without waiting for command to do so.
During these attacks the “prisoner” shoots twice into the air.

3. Watching the “prisoner” quietly when latter is quiet.

4. Arresting and holding the “prisoner” on attempted flight. The
“prisoner” attempts to drive the dog away with blows or a whip or by
throwing pieces of wood at him. The dog must watch him alone and twice
stop an attempted flight. As soon as the “prisoner” is quiet the dog
must leave him alone and watch him until the guide returns.

A high percentage of points are given for general obedience.

The whole attitude of the dog is taken into consideration especially
between the different exercises if he remains at heel; also how he
controls himself between the exercises toward the “prisoner,” and
whether he needs holding in check by the collar and in other ways
indicates that he understands when he is on duty and when he is not.

Unquestionably these trials throw a good deal of light on the training
of dogs used by the Continental nations for war purposes as well as for
police work, and it is hoped that greater facilities will be given for
such in other parts of the world.




                 The Hunting World and the Use of Dogs


It is to the Normans that the English-speaking races of the earth today
owe their hunting hounds in all their varieties. The Talbot hound was
introduced into England at the time of the conquest by William the
First.

All are not agreed as to the color of these Talbot hounds. Somervile,
the great sporting poet, describes them as “white as Alpine snows.”
There is, however, reason to believe that they are invariably of a
reddish tan and often with a black saddle. In form, color and shape they
are very much like the English bloodhound of today; indeed, that noble
animal is supposed to be the bedrock of all the breeds of hunting hounds
that are now in use the world over; and this because of that sentiment
and recognition of the variety as the chief pillar or the stay of
several of the most valued breeds, that the bloodhound is placed first
in the stud books of England and America, and the breed is number one in
the catalogues of the all-round dog shows everywhere.

[Illustration:

  _English Foxhounds in Full Cry_
]

It was and is desirable that the head of a hunting hound should be of
the above description—that is, if a close-hunting, unerring hound is
required to hunt singly, rather than in a pack. The formation of the
head above described, is one that is “made” for the purposes of hunting;
and in such a head are to be found the highly developed olfactory nerves
which communicate with the brain and actually inform the hound when he
strikes the scent of an animal and whether the effluvium is recent or
old.

It is the gloriousness and health-giving surroundings that have made the
chase so popular with nearly all peoples, and that is the reason hounds
are bred with such care and may generally be found in the ownership of
the well-to-do and the high personages of the world.

In the early days the English pursued the chase on foot, and their
objects of pursuit appear to have been principally the wild boar and the
wolf. The Anglo-Normans might be considered as the more polished, more
noble, and more scientific hunters, and they introduced that powerful
and pleasant assistant in the chase—the horse—as well as a great variety
of objects of pursuit. They chased the stag, the roebuck, the fox, the
hare, etc., and hunting the less dangerous animals seems to have
constituted their principal amusements; though the wolf and the boar
occasionally occupied their attention, and in all these branches of the
hunt dogs of varying degree were used.

Every village in England has its beagles, and nothing is more enjoyable
than an old-fashioned fox hunting, or chase, where hounds belonging to
many owners are packed together, and, jumping a fox, they run him for
hours on end, their glorious music resounding throughout the woods and
delighting the ear of the sportsman. The American foxhound appears to
have more of the old harrier or English southern hound blood in him than
is allowed to remain in the hound of the English. There are some
broad-headed and long-eared and heavy-lipped hounds in the United States
which remind the observer of the hounds of France and other Continental
countries—hounds that still bear a good deal of resemblance to the old
Talbot hounds—the hounds of the Normans. Finer and finer the English
bred their hounds as stag hunting gave way to fox hunting. The old
staghound was only one remove from the Talbot, and he was a big and
picturesque creature and these hounds are to be found in France today.

Hunting is a foremost sport all over the world, and there can be little
wonder that the spirit and standing of the peoples may be gauged from
the quality of their hounds. The panoply of the chase is among the more
glorious sights of the world, and in the pursuance of the various sports
connected with hounds, large and small, a vast amount of money is spent,
and a large number of persons employed, in the piping times of peace.

The beagle should be 15 inches or under, measured across the withers. If
he is ever that height he becomes a harrier; and a harrier over 19
inches becomes a foxhound, and a foxhound standing 24 inches at the
shoulders and 30 inches round his girth is indeed a splendid creature
and a beautifully proportioned one to boot. The hound is indeed a beauty
and a joy forever!

In England alone there are more than 800 packs of hunting dogs. Roughly,
there are 326 owners of hunts or hunting establishments in France. Some
of these hunts have 50 or 60 couples. In Belgium foxhounds are kept, and
the chief packs of hounds in Germany are the Royal Hounds, at Potsdam,
and the Hanover Hounds. They both hunt the drag and the boar. The
conditions of hunting in Austria and Hungary are much better than in
Germany. It is a good wild country and full of foxes. The Roman hounds
are world renowned. Fox hunting was introduced into Italy by Lord
Chesterfield in 1842, and the sport has flourished ever since. In Spain
the Calpa foxhounds show much sport in the vicinity of Gibraltar.

In the United States there are about forty well-known and properly
established packs of foxhounds. Throughout the Indian Empire there are
numerous packs, many of them being of the bobbery or mixed kind. The
jackal is the most frequently hunted animal. The Bombay Hounds are the
chief pack in India.

In South Africa the jackal is hunted with foxhounds, and a single hound
is used to drive buck to the rifle or gun. American foxhounds have
recently been introduced to British East Africa for the purposes of
hunting lion. These hounds have been of great use in bagging such large
and dangerous game, and in the case of cheetah and other tree-climbing
animals, the American foxhounds have not had the slightest difficulty in
driving their quarry at such a pace and with so much persistence that
the large cat is glad to see the supposed shelter of a thorn or other
tree standing out like a sentinel on the vast expanse of plains.

The foxhound, the harrier and the beagle are also of great use in Africa
for driving certain of the antelope, which keep in the bush, to the gun,
and a good deal of sport may be had in some of the rivers otter hunting,
and when otter hunting, a monitor, or huge lizard-like creature, is
often started in a swamp, and the reptile, taking to the water like an
otter, he will provide a good deal of sport. The otters in the Eastern
province of South Africa are plentiful and of good size. The rivers are
very huntable, for they are not deep and there is no great width or
volume of water at certain seasons of the year. There is much sport to
be had on the Mooi River, in Natal, where a pack of pure-bred otter
hounds is kept. And these hounds will not only hunt the water dog but
the aforesaid African monitor. Everywhere the hound is useful and
especially is this the case in a big and open country like Africa, where
a dog is required to be not only a hunter, but a guard and a friend.

In Australia there is a good deal of hunting and the Melbourne hunt is a
well-organized institution. Australia is a country in which all animal
life increases and multiplies rapidly. In 1864 one dog fox and two
vixens were imported from England. There soon became enough foxes in
Victoria to last the colony, now the province, forever. But red deer and
kangaroos are sometimes hunted with foxhounds, and in Western Australia,
in the neighborhoods of Freemantle, Perth and Kalgoorlie, there has been
much sport experienced in hunting the brush-tailed kangaroos. This form
of hunting was introduced by Mr. Cairns Candy in the late nineties.

In Tasmania, the island province off the main Australian continent,
there is some hunting with properly constituted and maintained packs of
hounds. In this lovely country, noted for its apples and the matchless
complexions of its pretty women, they hunt deer and hare. In New Zealand
there is a good deal of hunting, and harriers are principally in use.
There is a fine open country, and that in the North Island will remind
the hunting man of some of the shires of England.

The hounds of Europe, Asia, Africa and Australasia have been discussed,
and now we will find ourselves back in America. And this country may
well be proud of its old-fashioned, long-eared, heavy-jawed and
deep-throated foxhounds. That American foxhounds are suitable for
hunting American foxes, and where foxes are shot before hounds, there
can be no manner of doubt; but they do not kill many foxes, neither may
this killing quality be placed to the credit of the English foxhounds in
this country. Once a fox is able to sit down and listen to his pursuers,
then a foxhound or a pack of foxhounds have as much chance of overtaking
the quarry as a short-winged hawk has of catching a swallow on the wing.
A century ago, it is recorded, it was not unusual in South Carolina to
drive out of one large swamp, deer, wolves, bears, foxes, wildcats and
wild turkeys. The sportsmen were ready to shoot all of these.

In descriptive poetry of the earliest date, hunting is frequently
alluded to; even in the most important action of the whole Iliad, the
death of Hector, the pursuit of him by Achilles is thus introduced:

     “As through the forest, o’er the vale and lawn,
     The well-breathed beagle drives the flying fawn,
     In vain he tries the coverts of the brakes,
     Or deep beneath the trembling thicket shakes,
     Sure of the vapor in the tainted dews,
     The certain hound his various maze pursues.”
                                                           —_Pope._




                 The Gun and Coursing Dogs of the World


If there be one study in connection with dogs more interesting than
another, it must be that which has reference to the gun dogs and the
coursing dogs of the world. Since time immemorial, dogs have been used
by man for certain purposes and those which he has bred, maintained and
improved for his services, have kept time with the ever-changing methods
whereby the human is able to obtain and have for himself the beasts of
the field and the birds of the air. The first men who went after game
hunted it for food; and they very soon found out the most suitable dogs
for their purposes and they bred and produced dogs for different kinds
of work. It is fair to write that no domestic animals are better
represented throughout the world than are thoroughbred dogs of one kind
or another. The pure-breeds are to be found in countries that are
foreign to their varieties, and what is more, they are highly and justly
prized by their owners and even the very community in which the imported
dog has its new being. For let it be known, there are less distinctions
than owning a superior dog, and as these dogs are capable of reproducing
themselves, and both the males and females are prolific breeders, there
is almost at once, or within one year, established in the kennel of the
new land the high-blooded and moreover most useful dogs of other
nations. And that is the reason that wherever we may go we shall
probably find the particularly good gun dogs of Great Britain. These
consist of the pointer, the English, Irish and Gordon setters, the
retrievers and the Labrador or Lesser Newfoundland dogs, and the various
spaniels, which have all been practically made perfect in the British
Isles and distributed to the four corners of the earth. Dogs have been
produced that will hunt as well in one country as another; but one can
generally find that dogs—gun dogs and coursing dogs—are mostly chosen
with an eye to the environment in which they will have to hunt.

[Illustration:

  _A Fine Group of Gun Dogs._
]

[Illustration:

  _The Hunter and His Dog_
]

Both the pointer and the spaniel originally came from Spain, so it is
said. But the original Spanish pointer was too heavy and slow in his
pace for the English gunner, so he was crossed with the lighter
foxhound, and it is even said with the greyhound, so that he should be
more active and able to cover his ground better. Furthermore, the
heavy-headed Spanish pointer had the kind of head and lips that proclaim
a hunting dog that is inclined to keep his nose to the ground, rather
than carry it highly and thus better obtain the body scent of birds and
other game in the distance. The setter was originally the large spaniel,
and was taught to “set” or sit down when he had come upon birds, so that
the game could be encompassed by the fall-net, or the hawk or falcon
might have the better opportunity to fly at her quarry. When the small
pellets of lead were invented and the shotgun first used then the
setters of the netters and falconers became gun dogs, and as such we
will find pointers, setters, retrievers and spaniels of English origin
in every country where the sportsman may be found. Gun and coursing dogs
are not only imported into America as workers but as show dogs, and in
the great majority of cases these dogs are thoroughly broken or trained
as well as being good to look upon. Then these gun dogs may compete at
the various field trials now run off all over Europe, the United States
and Canada, or even South Africa, or at the coursing meetings in every
country of the world. The coursing dog is found most useful in Canada,
especially in the prairie provinces, where coyotes are destructive and a
curse to the sheepman and even the horse breeder, for a pack of prairie
wolves will attack and kill a foal. As a part and parcel of the farm,
the ranch, the station and estancia the gun dog and the coursing dogs
are invaluable. Pointers, setters, spaniels and retrievers are useful
under all circumstances, and they perform the same work in all climates
and under the various and dissimilar conditions. In some countries
pointers are preferred to setters; but, on inquiry, it will generally be
found that the alleged fitness of one variety of dog over the other, is
merely a matter of taste or “fancy.” A man who owns setters prefers
setters; the individual who possesses pointers has a preference for
pointers. ’Tis his fancy—his hobby, and that gentle leaning towards one
breed often means the fellow’s antipathy to another breed.

In a land or country that has been indifferently cultivated or is wild,
there are several kinds of burrs that inconveniently fall at the very
time when the hunting or shooting season begins. Some say that the
pointer, because of his short coat, will not be so troubled with these
prickles as will the long-coated setter, which is feathered on the legs
and picks up the burrs wherever he may go. On the other hand, the setter
admirer avows that the feathered and better protected foot of the setter
saves him from being lamed so often as the clean and unprotected footed
pointer. So it will be seen that these preferences are mostly imaginary
and may be traced to fancy.

On the Continent of Europe we find many kinds of most useful dogs; but
both the pointers and setters are only modifications of the old hunting
dogs that came from Spain. There are rough-haired and smooth-coated
pointers in Germany, and they are very handsome animals with excellent
formation and with hunting qualities of the highest order. The griffons
of France, Holland and Belgium are particularly good dogs; rough and
ready in appearance, with excellent brains and great scenting powers. In
him we will recognize a lot of hound blood which may have come from the
otterhound or the hounds of Vendée. But they are just the sort of dogs
that a man wants for rough-shooting in the woods or swamps. The griffon
is an active dog, does not throw his tongue when immediately close to
game or in sight of it, as does the hound. The griffon makes a good
woodcock, “partridge” and duck dog; and as such he has been found of the
greatest use in America. The griffon is a good dog in the water as well
as on land, and in this way he proves himself a thoroughly serviceable
all-round sporting dog. The wolf-hounds of Russia are most useful dogs,
and as their name foretells, they are used as wolf-coursing dogs. Three
are slipped to the wolf after he has been driven from cover by foxhounds
or beaters. When they come up with their game they bump into the quarry
and at the right moment lay hold of the beast by the neck and hold him
until the hunter arrives and either dispatches the game with a pistol or
knife, or placing a stick in the wolf’s jaws, twists a rope around the
muzzle and neck, and thus preventing him from accomplishing any harm,
captures the creature alive and practically uninjured. The Russian
wolf-hound is the best killer of any of the coursing dogs. Like a
bulldog, he holds on to what he seizes; his jaws are very powerful, and
it is because of this tenacity that the Russian wolf-hound, or borzoi,
as he is frequently called, is used for crossing purposes on the English
greyhound and the Scottish deerhound or on the progeny of these two
breeds, for the purpose of producing what is known as the “long dog” of
the Canadian prairies, where he is used principally for coursing and
killing the coyote. The Russian wolf-hound has also been successfully
crossed on to the deerhound in Australia, either for straight out
kangaroo dogs or dingo killers. The Russian wolf-hound goes to the
throat of his enemy, and such a dog is required for the prompt killing
of dingoes. The long and strong limbs of the kangaroo are means of
defense, both as propelling powers in his long and swift bounds or jumps
and for fighting when it comes to the more serious defense as against
dingoes or the domesticated dogs, hence the kangaroo dog is taught to
attack from behind.

The slugi or greyhounds of Arabia, Persia and Egypt may be noticed. In
these we will find small examples of the Russian wolf-hound, but they
have down or setterlike ears as opposed to the half-cocked or fully
pricked ears of the Northern dogs. The dogs of the near East have
generally long feet and these are feathered, as are their ears, legs and
tails. They are used to course antelopes and hares, and one of the most
ancient of sports is to not only course the antelope with these slugi,
but at the same time fly hawks at the fleeing buck, which has the
advantage over the dogs in sandy places and over stony or rocky ground.
The big and somewhat picturesque greyhounds of Afghanistan are large
dogs much after the form of the near Eastern dogs; they are used for the
same purposes, and because of their surroundings in high altitudes, they
grow large and woolly coats to aid them against the vicissitudes of the
cold climate. In India, indeed, all over Asia, the different gun dogs
generally associated with the British Isles are used and they cannot
very well be done without on the small feathered game which is
plentiful. In Japan and China the pheasant shooting is very good, and
Americans who have gone over to shoot in those countries have taken
their dogs from this country with them and have found them to accomplish
all that was required of them.

If we leave Asia and continue our wanderings and huntings to the South,
and reach Africa, we will find plenty of work for our hunting hounds,
our coursing dogs and gun dogs. The slugi or greyhounds were the most
valued dogs of the Pharoahs. In the ancient monuments the dogs’ places
are at the sides of some great personage. It would appear that the
tastes of the Egyptians of old were exactly those of the ancient
Britons, for there is an old Welsh saying which states that “a gentleman
is known by his horse, his hawk and his greyhound.” The slugi in its
native or home state is now principally to be found in its purity among
the Bedouin Arabs. They place the greatest value on these dogs, and they
are as difficult to obtain from the wandering Arabs as are their
thoroughbred horses. Furthermore, there is an Arab saying that the most
valued of all things among the highest of these nomads and hunters are
“his horse, his slugi and his wife’s earrings.” The Arabian greyhounds
are primarily valuable for coursing antelope in sandy countries and
where the sun is felt with all his power. They also thrive in temperate
climates.

[Illustration:

  _Incident in a Waterloo Coursing Meeting_
]

Our old friends the pointers and setters are used in Northern Africa, as
they are in the South and the East, the West and Central of that
enormous and game-holding country. American foxhounds have been found
most useful running on the trail of the lion; furthermore, they have the
good sense to keep away from the great cat when it comes to close
quarters. These hounds will soon tree a cheetah and the rifles or the
arrows of the natives will accomplish the rest. In Africa, generally,
there is much bird life, as that term applies to partridges, snipe,
quail, etc. In that country there are several small and dangerous
snakes; but it has been found that the dogs’ sagacity has been such that
they, of their own initiation, immediately become alive to the dangerous
natures of these reptiles and that they will return to the shooter when
they get near a snake, either in the grass or on a branch overhead.
Greyhounds are used in Africa for coursing the smaller bucks and hares,
and such dogs, fleet of foot and able to run down an antelope, may be
bartered “up-country” for produce of great value, the natives,
especially the chiefs of powerful tribes—practically nations—having been
known to give mining and other concessions where first class dogs have
been given as presents.

There is a great deal of variety in the Australian shooting and the bush
life of that lovely country is entrancing for the lover of nature and
the observer of mammals and birds. Pointers and setters are used in just
the same way as they are anywhere else. Quail are plentiful and the
varieties of numbers of wild fowl are beautiful and often countless. As
for hares, in some places they are almost as common as the rabbits; and
hares are three times more prolific in that balmy country than they are
in climes north of the equator in Europe and America. Coursing is a
great sport there and is a means of much speculating or wagering among
Australians and New Zealanders. New Zealand in many climatic instances
and country surroundings is very much like England, and game has been
imported and the different societies and clubs have done much to
acclimatize, breed and protect game. Here is a country where springer
spaniels could be more in evidence and worked with advantage. A good
trade should spring up between New Zealand and California for gun dogs
and greyhounds. The passage is one of less than three weeks, and the
freight inconsiderate. All over South America gun dogs and greyhounds
are required. There is some shooting in New Guinea, but the bush is very
dense and the natives not always agreeable to the visitation of the man
with a gun. Some very nice dogs are to be found in the Hawaiian Islands,
notably at ever-glorious and salubrious Honolulu, the Paradise of the
Pacific. And within a few days’ hail is the Golden Gate and the
ever-bountiful lands that slope down to the North Pacific and the
longed-for port by the voyagers from the far East and the farther South.
Here, of course, we will find gun dogs in great variety, and many
greyhounds. Some years ago several of the best running dogs in England
were imported by sportsmen in California. And that stock is in the
Golden State now. Gun dogs are not only esteemed as gun dogs or for
their work, but also for their good looks. The English setter is bred in
all his attractive loveliness and usefulness all the way up the Pacific
Coast as far as British Columbia. And it is in the last mentioned
province that some of the most beautiful of the blue-ticked, long and
silver silk-like coated setting dogs have been bred. Taking the whole of
the North American Continent we will find it one abiding place for gun
dogs of the highest merit; and as it is well known, Americans and
Canadians have always been circumspect and generous in their
importations of gun dogs from Europe, and, consequently, have possessed
themselves of specimens that are not only good to look upon, but easy to
train and delightful to shoot over.




                    Whippet Dogs and Whippet Racing


The whippet is a greyhound-like dog, and is the fastest of all dogs at
his weight or height. In some instances they have been crossed with
Italian greyhounds, but these alliances are apt to bring about inferior
whippets for racing or catching rabbits, either on their own ground or
at rabbit-coursing or snap-dog matches. In rabbit-coursing, where the
rabbits have previously been caught and turned down on unknown ground
(to the rabbit) before a brace of whippets, it is the dog _that catches_
the rabbit that wins the course, and the winner of the majority of a
given number of courses wins the wager for its owner or connections.
Snap-dog coursing—that is, running rabbits down with whippets in small
and enclosed places, the rabbit being given little “law,” is not
considered a sportsmanlike action, and is practiced only as a means of
gambling. Whippets have long been declared a pure breed, and this dog
was first recognized as such by the English Kennel Club.

[Illustration:

  _The Whippet_
]

Whippet racing is an old sport and the pastime of working men in
England. He has been called the poor man’s race-horse, as indeed he is,
the dog providing sport and a means of speculation for men of slender
means. Whippet racing is carried on right through the year in the
Northwest and North of England. Of late years it has become a great
sport in London and its suburbs, the principal handicaps being run off
every other Sunday forenoons at Walthamstow. Whippet racing was
patronized by the late King Edward VII of England, at the Ranelagh Club
grounds, London, and the leading “country club” of its kind in the
United Kingdom. Whippet racing has long been a sport in Belgium, France
and Germany. Dog racing was also introduced into South Africa during the
end of the last century, and valuable handicaps are run off on the
diamond and gold fields. Whippet racing was first favored in the United
States by the English operatives in the cotton mills in New England,
especially in Massachusetts. The sport has been well and continuously
conducted at country clubs around Boston and Philadelphia, which has put
the pastime on a society basis. There is no cruelty in whippet racing.
The dog is held on his mark by the neck and root of tail, and, starting
off at pistol fire, the object of his run of 200 yards or less being a
towel held by the runner-up—usually someone he knows—who stands, holloas
and waves the “rag,” as it is called, 10 yards beyond the winning line
or mark. The dogs are handicapped according to their weight or height.
The latter is not a popular mode and it is the weight of a dog that is
considered practically everywhere. Roughly, it can be reckoned that a
dog of say 16 pounds is 2½ to 3 yards faster than a 15–pound dog. A
bitch is keener than a dog. The handicap scale given in this description
of the whippet was arranged by Freeman Lloyd and is largely in use
throughout the world.

[Illustration:

  _Finish in an Old-time Whippet Race Meeting_
]

A whippet track may be easily laid out on grass, race track, show or
fair ground. It must be 220 yards straight. If it is over, so much the
better. The further the onlookers are kept off the track the more they
can see, and they will not interfere with the dogs running. The whippets
are entered, their names, weights, colors and owners being given. Each
owner pays an entry fee for each dog and these fees are generally made a
sweepstake and the purse divided between the first, second and third
dogs in the final heat. The dogs must be weighed before they run and an
allowance is made of 4 ounces or 8 ounces either way in their stated
weight. The handicap is run off in heats, the number of dogs in each
heat varying according to the entry and the duration of the racing.
Heats may be run off like clockwork, one lot of dogs starting off as the
others are finishing; or it may be delayed when the number of dogs is
limited. If 40 dogs are entered and an afternoon’s sport desired they
can be run off in heats of four dogs each. There would be then 10
winners of heats to run off in the semi-finals, which could be either
two heats of five each or, better still, three heats with two fours and
one of three dogs. The two winners, or the three winners of the
semi-finals, must be run off in the final. Taking the three semi-finals
for choice, there would be run off altogether 14 races, which would
occupy about two hours. The owner of the second may challenge the weight
of the winner, immediately after the final is run. The dog is then
allowed 6 ounces to the usual allowance made before the running of its
first heat.

Here is a plan of a track. If possible, the dogs should run so that the
sun shall not be in their faces.

 +--+--+--+--+--+--+------------------------------------+------------+
 |  |  |  |  |  |  |                                    |            |
 |  |  |  |  |  |  |             200 Yards              |  10 Yards  |
 |  |  |  |  |  |  |                                    |            |
 +--+--+--+--+--+--+------------------------------------+------------+
 Handicap Marks                                       Winning       Over
                                                        Mark        Mark

The dogs run in colors, strips of narrow ribbon being tied around their
necks. These are of red, white, blue, yellow, green and black. On the
race card the shade of the dog’s racing color is noted in the
preliminary heats. In the semi-final and final heats the back or scratch
dog wears the red collar, the next the white, the next the blue, and so
on. If the red dog is first over the winning line, where the judge
stands, the judge raises a red flag. Whatever color wins so is a flag of
the same color held aloft by the official whose ruling is final. Each
“runner-up” must be behind the over or trig mark before his dog crosses
the winning line. If dogs start when the cap is fired, but there is no
powder explosion, it is no start. But if all dogs go fairly away, it is
a start. Dead heats must be run off excepting in the final, where owners
may agree to divide. If a dog is disqualified, the second dog takes his
place in the records. No live bait allowed with the runner-up, and all
dogs are subject to inspection by the officials. It is recommended that
only whippets of 25 pounds or under be raced. The bigger dogs are often
given to savaging or “slapping,” and appear ungainly among a lot of
small dogs. The back dog in every heat must run the whole of the 200
yards, or whatever smaller course is used.


STARTS FOR DOGS AND BITCHES OF DIFFERENT WEIGHTS IN 200 YARDS HANDICAP.

When a dog wins at a handicap he must be penalized according to the
judgment of the handicapper. The following handicap would put each dog
or bitch on equal terms, providing all the dogs were exactly of the same
calibre or of equal racing powers—barring their weights:

  Wt. of Dog or Bitch—Lbs. Start for Dogs, Yd. Start for Bitches, Yd.
                        28                   1                      0
                        27                   2                      1
                        26                   3                      2
                        25                   4                      3
                        21                   5                      4
                        23                   6                      5
                        22                   7                      6
                        21                   8                      7
                        20                  9½                     7½
                        19                  11                      8
                        18                 12½                     9½
                        17                  14                     11
                        16                  16                     13
                        15                 18½                    14½
                        14                 21½                     17
                        13                 24½                     20
                        12                 27½                    23½
                        11                  31                    26½
                        10                  35                     30
                         9                  39                     34
                         8                  43                     38
                         7                  47                     43
                         6                  52                     48
                         5                  58                     54

A dog covering 200 yards in 12 seconds gallops at the rate of 16 yards
24 inches a second; in 13 seconds, 15 yards 14 inches, and in 14
seconds, 14 yards 10⅓ inches.




                        The Sled Dogs of Alaska


Between the laborer who earns his daily bread by the sweat of his brow,
and the spoiled favorite of fortune who neither toils nor spins, there
is not more difference than between the workers of the North—the Sled
Dogs of Alaska—and the pampered, fur-coated, jewel-hung dogs “in
society”; dogs who have their silk-lined baskets, their gold-mounted
toilet articles, and the exclusive services of a personal attendant. But
“Dogs is Dogs,” and the unhappy accident of birth that gives to such a
dog the humiliating experience of having his teeth brushed by a maid, or
a massage of cold cream after a bath in a silver-plated tub, should not
be held against him—for he may still retain some of his admirable,
lovable canine qualities through the human veneer.

A dog’s intelligence and his faithful, affectionate nature are his chief
assets in his association with man; and if he preserves these in spite
of his artificial surroundings as a mere toy, his development along
those lines is almost unlimited when he becomes a co-worker with his
master, and a devoted comrade through adversity and peril.

[Illustration:

  _Incident in the Ziegler Polar Expedition, 1903–5_
  _Mr. Anthony Fiala with His Dog Teams—Lat. 82° N._
]

Far beyond the Aleutian Islands, which stretch a grim barrier between
the North Pacific and Bering Sea, almost to the bleak coast of Siberia,
there lies that part of Alaska not familiar to the average tourist. The
Alaska of primeval forests, of great, almost unknown rivers, of vast
areas of snow and ice that reach to the desolate shore of the Arctic—the
Alaska of the Dogs; and here in the “Land that God forgot,” the dog
holds a unique place as an indispensable factor in the settlement of the
country.

He discovered the North Pole with Peary; he discovered the South Pole
and the Northwest Passage, too, with Amundsen; and he played a pathetic
yet heroic part in the brave, if futile, efforts of Captain Scott to
reach his goal; just as he has ever played well his role of support to
those who have sought to penetrate the trackless wastes at the ends of
the earth.

Late in October, usually under leaden skies, nearly the entire
population of Nome stands upon a dreary beach watching the last boat of
the open season, the “Victoria,” steam slowly out through a sea already
heavy with young ice, and disappear in the misty grayness of the
horizon. The parting salute of the ship’s siren has been answered by all
of the town whistles; and then as if to add the fitting climax to the
gloom of the occasion, it seems that every dog within hearing raises his
voice to join in a mournful farewell chorus—a blood-curdling wail that
is characteristic of these Northern dogs with their strong wolf strain.

[Illustration:

  _A Typical Scene in the Arctic Regions_
]

But the people look with kindly eyes upon them, and even listen with
kindly ears—for they know that every letter, paper, and magazine from
now till the middle of June, will be brought in over fifteen hundred
miles of ice and snow and frozen sea, by the United States Government
Dog Team Mail; and that, except for the wireless system, all of the news
from the great world “outside,” from family and friends, depends upon
these Postmen of the Silent Trails. They go where soft snow and other
conditions make it impossible to use horses. No service is too lowly, no
mission too high. They pull the baby in his tiny sled, are the means of
delivery for the merchant, and they carry the doctor and priest to the
bedside of the sick or dying in some lonely, distant cabin.

[Illustration:

  _Eskimo family and malamute—At Home._
]

Owing to the prohibitive tax rate on railroads which traverse
practically uninhabited districts in Seward Peninsula—a tax which has
only been abolished within the past few months—dogs have become the
motive power instead of engines; and in place of the “toot-toot” of the
locomotive as it takes a freight train out to the mines with supplies,
there is the “bow-wow” of the dog team “Kougarok Limited” or the “Little
Creek Express” as it starts down the track with a loaded flat car.

As to “joy riding,” the “Pupmobile” has every automobile completely
outclassed when it comes to the maximum of joy, and the minimum of
danger. Given a winter night when the frosty air brings the tingling
blood to cheek and finger tip, when the glittering stars seem close
above one’s head in the clear sky, and when the trail glistens like a
silver ribbon in the ghostly radiance of the Northern Lights, it is a
phlegmatic person indeed who does not feel the thrill of excitement and
delight that animates the dogs as they strain in their harness to be
away for a spin across the snows.

Then there is the famous All Alaska Sweepstakes race each April from
Nome on Bering Sea, to Candle on the Arctic Ocean and return, a distance
of 408 miles; and the dogs as well as the men who have won their laurels
in this contest are the sort of men and dogs who are making the History
of Alaska—who are creating an Empire from a Wilderness.

There are two types of dogs used in the race. The Siberians, small,
prick-eared, with bushy tails curled up over their backs, and with
apparently decided traces of the fox; and the Alaskans who are of mixed
breeds—setters, pointers, collies, hounds or what not—with a more or
less pronounced wolf strain inherited from the McKenzie River Huskie or
coast Malamute.

Both types have their staunch supporters, and for excellent reasons—for
both possess wonderful qualities that endear them to dog users and dog
lovers. The Siberians have not the speed, and many claim not the
responsiveness and intelligence of the Alaskans—but they are gentle,
tractable, easy to handle and are able to travel more steadily and with
less rest than the others.

[Illustration:

  _Dubby, a McKenzie River huskie, of the Allan and Darling Kennel,
    whose wonderful intelligence, and a record of over thirty thousand
    miles in harness, established his reputation as one of the greatest
    leaders Alaska has ever known._
]

The amount of rest in the race is a question of judgment with the
driver, who must decide how much he can afford to take himself, and give
his dogs without the unnecessary loss of a moment; but as he must return
with every dog—dead or alive—with which he started, it is to his
greatest advantage to keep them in the very best of condition. At every
road-house and relay camp where they stop for food and sleep, it is
“Dogs First,” no driver thinking of himself till his team is fed,
rubbed, and bedded. When they are tired or foot-sore, they ride in turn
upon the sled, recuperating quickly in this way. Little moccasins of
canton flannel are carried to be used on hard trails, and veils of black
or green mosquito netting are placed over the dogs’ eyes if the glare of
the sun is too dazzling.

In the Sweepstakes of 1910, John Johnson, a Russian Finn, driving a team
of Siberians entered by Colonel Charles Ramsay of London, came in first.
The weather had been ideal, the trail perfect, and they had broken all
records—covering the 408 miles in but little more than seventy-four
hours. Closely following them was Charles Fox-Maule Ramsay, nephew of
Colonel Ramsay, and younger brother of the Earl of Dalhousie, driving
his own team of Siberians; and it certainly seemed that the day of the
Siberians had come. But in 1911 and 1912, through terrible blizzards and
over miserable trails, the Allan and Darling team of Alaskans, driven by
“Scotty” Allan, were the winners; and in 1913, Fay Dalzene, with the
Bowen-Dalzene dogs, was first, also using the Alaskan type. So that out
of the seven great races that have been held under the auspices of the
Nome Kennel Club since it was organized in 1908, five victories have
fallen to the Alaskans, and the breaking of the record to the Siberians.

In short distances some of the dogs are remarkably fast, travelling at
the rate of fifteen or sixteen miles an hour. Irish, one of the Allan
and Darling team, a beautiful setter with some huskie blood, can pace a
mile in three minutes; and Spot, a cross-bred pointer and huskie, after
leading the team thirty miles over a heavy trail, covered four miles in
thirteen minutes and twenty-five seconds without breaking.

[Illustration:

  _The starting of John Johnson’s team of Siberians in one of the All
    Alaska Sweepstakes Races in Nome, Alaska._
]

As dog teams are not driven with reins, but by word of mouth, there must
be in every team a particularly intelligent dog who is the leader. He
must understand not only the simple orders “Mush” (go on), “Gee” (to the
right), “Haw” (to the left), and “Stop,” but he must have exceptionally
quick instincts, a definite acknowledged mastery over the other dogs,
and a sort of canine good judgment which tells him the right thing to do
in difficulties and emergencies.

The stories of the marvellous sagacity of certain leaders are easy of
belief to “the men that know the North” as Service calls them, but they
would appear to be gross exaggerations or absolute untruths to those who
have never seen dogs work in harness on the trail.

A leader has certain privileges, such as getting into the sled when the
driver is not at the handle bars, and reposing in comfort and dignity on
the furs while the rest of the dogs lie in the snow; and other
perquisites which may occasion bitter jealousy and make necessary the
utmost precaution in guarding him from the attacks of his envious
team-mates. Sometimes an old leader, discarded or pensioned, will
craftily wait for a chance to kill his successor—this chance generally
occurring when the new aspirant for honors is tied and at a
disadvantage. Some leaders, however, through wonderful strength and
other superior qualities, become more or less exempt from this ill
feeling, and their leadership is freely and pleasantly accepted both in
and out of “business hours.” Of these, Dubby, a magnificent specimen of
the McKenzie River huskie, brought down from Dawson by “Scotty” Allan,
was one of the most prominent. Dubby lived to be twelve years old, but
was pensioned on his ninth birthday, while still in perfect condition
and well able to enjoy the rewards of his faithful service. He had a
record of over thirty thousand miles, in harness, to his credit, and the
anecdotes of his intelligence are legion. He was often driven “loose,”
running ahead of the team instead of being hooked up with them; and he
was so efficient as a “general manager” that the loss of his pulling
power was of small moment compared to his ability to find and keep an
obliterated trail, and his capacity for doing the many clever and
helpful things that his active mind found to do. A mere hint that some
dog was not working was enough, and Dubby would rush back to critically
examine them all till the shirker was located by a slack tow line or
traces not held taut. The culprit received a warning nip on the ear or
flank, which was a threat of worse punishment if he did not mend his
laggard habits; then Dub would dash off to give some other evidence of
his real generalship. Perhaps it would be to decide that the ice on the
river was not thick enough to bear the weight of the heavily loaded
sled—for some strange instinct enabled him to know that fact, when an
experienced Musher could be readily deceived; or he would choose the
correct trail where many met and crossed, in spite of the efforts of an
exasperated driver to convince him of the error of his ways. “You
stubborn old Siwash (an insult indeed to apply the name of the most
shiftless of Indians to a self-respecting huskie), I’ll wager you’re
wrong; but do as you please, keep us all out here in thirty below
weather, tired and hungry, and then maybe next time you’ll listen to
reason.” But Dubby never did make the predicted mistake, and many a
comfortable night’s rest in shelter and warmth was the result of his
unerring confidence in his own ability which no argument could disturb.
He would politely wag his stump of a tail while he listened tolerantly
to your opinion, but he ignored it with the same amiable disregard one
would show toward the foolish suggestions of a babbling child.

The tragedies of the Arctic wastes are many, and would be more but for
the faithful dogs; the list of canine heroes is long, and would be much
longer were all of their brave deeds recorded. They have never, like
some of whom we read, attended an “Acadamie pour Chiens,” and acquired,
with a diploma, such unnatural refinements and useless accomplishments
as are displayed by “dogs in society.” If invited to attend a luncheon
of chicken à la Maryland, served on a decorated table, with Fifi and
Bijou as fellow guests, they would not only demolish the chicken in
short order, but also the decorations, and possibly Fifi and Bijou as
well—classing them with cats and other legitimate prey.

There is no downy cushion before the blazing fire, no chosen corner of
the limousine, no tooth brush or manicure set for the work dog of the
North; yet they are probably happier than their kin of the governess and
college education. They have no time for ennui—there are duties to be
done, and it is rare indeed to find a sled dog who does not take pride
in his task, show delight at the sight of his harness, and eagerly
welcome the preparations for a good long mush.

Perhaps one of the most striking features of the races is the pleasure
that the dogs manifest not only in the preliminary training, but in the
contest itself. One frequently sees a team of dogs, old in the knowledge
of racing, perfectly familiar with the hardships before them, waiting
for the signal to leave, and so eager to be off, that three or four men
are barely able to restrain them till the dip of the flag starts them on
their dash to the Arctic. So, too, it is not unusual for a Mail Team,
becoming impatient of the delay in unloading the mail, to run away after
having carried a thousand pounds of mail for a distance of two or three
hundred miles.

In summer when the dogs are not being used they often spend the time
about mining camps where they are fed; or if in town they select one or
more houses to which they make daily visits at meal hours if they find
the inmates hospitably inclined. In many districts the dogs are
virtually turned out to forage for themselves, when the wild strain in
them asserts itself to an astonishing degree; but this is not true of
Nome where dogs are held in high esteem, and where they are given the
proper care at all seasons. And each year when the last boat of the
summer sails from Nome, there is a long list of dog passengers. To a
fancier they would seem undoubtedly a collection not worth their
transportation; to my Lady of the Lap Dog they would cause shudders of
disgust; there would be no place at the Bench Show for such as these.
They are without pedigree, or beauty perhaps—mongrels if you will—but
one never knows what a wealth of fidelity may be hidden beneath a rough
exterior. Many a story that touches the heart may be extracted from the
prospector going outside accompanied by some favorite dog who has shared
his solitude and his hardships; who has helped to bear his burdens, and
who is now to enjoy with him what they have earned together.

Perhaps that blind old huskie has guided his bewildered driver along the
right trail to safety, true to the instincts of the wild, when the
whirling snow and icy sleet cut like stinging whip lashes into the face
and eyes, making sight impossible.

Perhaps this ragged, ungroomed malamute with his wolf head and his human
heart, dragged himself with patient, bleeding feet, half starved and
nearly frozen, to some remote camp with the warning that his unconscious
master, caught unprepared in a sudden storm, needed help.

Perhaps—but after all, each tale is only another variation of the same
theme: dog’s loyalty to man. And as pampered pets, or as valued
assistants, in society or out of it, this loyalty justifies the
attention and regard they receive. It is the one thing all dogs have in
common, and whether in their veins runs the blue blood of generations of
prize winners, or the humble strain of some obscure street waif, it is
to You, and not to what you possess, not for what you can offer him,
that the dog gives his steadfast allegiance.

      Sometimes when life has gone wrong with you
      And the world seems a dreary place,
      Has your dog ever silently crept to your feet,
      His yearning eyes turned to your face—
      Has he made you feel that he understands,
      And all that he asks of you
      Is to share your lot, be it good or ill,
      With a chance to be loyal and true?
      Are you branded a failure? He does not know—
      A sinner? He does not care—
      You’re Master to him—that’s all that counts—
      A word, and his day is fair.
      Your birth and your station are nothing to him;
      A Palace and Hut are the same;
      And his love is yours in honor and peace,
      As it’s yours through disaster and shame.
      Though others forget you and pass you by,
      He is ever your Faithful Friend,—
      Ready to give you the best that is his,
      Unselfishly, unto the End.
                                          ESTHER BIRDSALL DARLING.




                                 INDEX


                       Breed.                 Nationality. Page.
       Bloodhound                             English          7
       Bulldog                                     „           8
       Bulldog (Miniature)                         „           8
       Foxhound                                    „           9
       Trailhound                                  „           9
       Harrier                                     „          10
       Beagle                                      „          10
       Collie (Rough-Coated)                       „          11
       Collie (Smooth-Coated)                      „          11
       Retriever (Flat-Coated)                     „          12
       Retriever (Curly-Coated)                    „          12
       Pointer                                     „          13
       Setter                                      „          13
       Spaniel (Clumber)                           „          14
       Spaniel (English Springer)                  „          15
       Spaniel (Sussex)                            „          15
       Spaniel (Field)                             „          16
       Spaniel (Cocker)                            „          16
       Fox Terrier (Smooth-Coated)                 „          17
       Fox Terrier (Wire-Haired)                   „          17
       Greyhound                                   „          18
       Whippet                                     „          18
       Bull Terrier                                „          19
       Bull Terrier (Toy)                          „          19
       Airedale                                    „          20
       Bedlington                                  „          20
       Manchester Terrier                          „          21
       Manchester Terrier (Toy)                    „          21
       Mastiff                                     „          22
       White English Terrier                       „          22
       Old English Sheepdog                        „          23
       White English Toy Terrier                   „          23
       Otterhound                                  „          24
       Yorkshire Terrier                           „          24
       Toy Spaniel                                 „          25
       Irish Wolfhound                        Irish           26
       Irish Terrier                               „          27
       Kerry Beagle                                „          27
       Irish Setter                                „          28
       Irish Water Spaniel                         „          28
       Skye Terrier (Prick-Eared)             Scottish        29
       Skye Terrier (Drop-Eared)                   „          29
       West Highland White Terrier                 „          30
       Scottish Terrier                            „          30
       Deerhound                                   „          31
       Shetland Sheepdog                           „          31
       Dandie Dinmont                              „          32
       Cairn Terrier                               „          32
       Gordon Setter                               „          33
       Bearded Collie                              „          33
       Welsh Terrier                          Welsh           34
       Sealyham Terrier                            „          34
       Welsh Springer                              „          35
       Welsh Hound                                 „          35
       Gazelle Hound                          Indian          36
       Lhassa Terrier                              „          37
       Tibetan Mastiff                             „          37
       Rampur Greyhound                            „          38
       Banjara                                     „          38
       Barb                                   Australian      39
       Australian Terrier                          „          39
       Kangaroo Greyhound                          „          40
       Maltese Terrier                        Malta           40
       Newfoundland (Black)                   Newfoundland    41
       Newfoundland (Black and White)              „          42
       Huskie                                 Canadian        42
       Labrador Retriever                          „          42
       Pyrenean Sheepdog                      French          43
       French Sheepdog                             „          44
       Barbet                                      „          44
       Smooth-Coated French Basset                 „          45
       Rough-Coated French Basset                  „          45
       Rough-Coated Basset of Brittany             „          46
       Basset of the Ardennes                      „          46
       Rough-Coated Basset of Vendée               „          47
       Blue Basset of Gascogne                     „          47
       French Pointer                              „          48
       Dupuy Pointer                               „          48
       Pointer of Ariege                           „          49
       Pointer of Saint-Germain                    „          49
       Pointer Bourbonnais                         „          50
       Blue Pointer of Auvergne                    „          50
       French Setter                               „          51
       Setter of Picardie                          „          51
       Setter of Pont-Audemer                      „          51
       Griffon Boulet                              „          52
       Griffon Guerlain                            „          52
       Griffon Nivernais                           „          53
       Griffon Fauve de Bretagne                   „          53
       Griffon Vendeen                             „          54
       French Bulldog                              „          54
       Poodle (Corded)                             „          55
       Poodle (Non-Corded)                         „          55
       Poodle (Toy)                                „          56
       Bordeaux                                    „          56
       Hound of Vendée                             „          57
       Poitevin Hound                              „          57
       Poitou Hound                                „          58
       Normand Dog                                 „          58
       Saintonge                                   „          59
       Gascogne                                    „          59
       Franche-Comté                               „          60
       Artois                                      „          60
       Virelade                                    „          61
       Gris de Saint-Louis                         „          61
       Great Dane                             German          62
       Dachshund                                   „          63
       Pomeranian                                  „          64
       Pomeranian (Miniature)                      „          64
       Dobermann Pinscher                          „          65
       Affenpinscher                               „          65
       German Shepherd Dog                         „          66
       German Hound                                „          66
       Wire-Coated German Terrier                  „          67
       Smooth-Coated German Terrier                „          67
       Smooth-Coated German Pointer                „          68
       Rough-Coated German Pointer                 „          68
       Pointer of Wurtemberg                       „          69
       Pointer of Weimar                           „          69
       German Setter                               „          70
       Wachtelhund                                 „          70
       Griffon-Korthals                            „          71
       Boxer                                       „          71
       Hanovrian Limer                             „          72
       Bavarian Limer                              „          72
       Italian Sheepdog                       Italian         73
       Sheepdog of Abruzzes                        „          73
       Italian Greyhound                           „          74
       Italian Griffon                             „          74
       Italian Pointer                        Italian         75
       Bolognese                                   „          75
       Draught Dog                            Belgian         76
       Brussels Griffon                            „          77
       Toy Brabantine                              „          77
       Belgian Sheepdog                            „          78
       Schipperke                                  „          78
       Papillon                                    „          79
       Wire-Haired Dutch Terrier              Dutch           79
       Dutch Sheepdog                              „          80
       Danish Pointer                         Denmark         80
       Austrian Hound                         Austrian        81
       Hungarian Sheepdog                     Hungarian       81
       Bosnian Hound                          Bosnian         82
       Dalmatian                              Dalmatian       82
       Spanish Pointer                        Spanish         83
       Medelan                                     „          83
       St. Bernard                            Swiss           84
       Swiss Setter                                „          85
       Lucern Hound                                „          85
       Bern Hound                                  „          86
       Swiss Hound                                 „          86
       Borzoi                                 Russian         87
       Russian Yellow Retriever                    „          88
       Russian Hound                               „          88
       Owtchar                                     „          89
       Samoyed                                     „          89
       Finnish Pom                            Finland         90
       Finnish Hound                               „          91
       Norwegian Elkhound                     Norwegian       91
       Swedian Hound                          Swedian         92
       Norwegian Hound                        Norwegian       92
       Iceland Dog                            Iceland         93
       Dog of Noorland                        Noorland        93
       Lapland Sheepdog                       Lapland         94
       Esquimau                               Greenland       94
       Boston Terrier                         American        95
       American Bloodhound                         „          95
       Chesapeake                                  „          96
       American Foxhound                           „          96
       Mexican Hairless                       Mexican         97
       Chihuahua                                   „          97
       Japanese Spaniel                       Japanese        98
       Pekingese Spaniel                      Chinese         99
       Happa                                       „          99
       Chow-Chow                                   „         100
       Pug                                         „         100
       Chinese Crested Dog                         „         101
       Little Lion Dog                             „         101
       Balearic Greyhound                     Spanish        102
       Phu-Quoc Greyhound                     Siamese        103
       Portuguese Greyhound                   Portuguese     103
       Persian Greyhound                      Persian        104
       Arabian Greyhound                      Arabian        104


                               CHAPTERS.

       Dogs of Warfare                                       105
       British Sheepdogs                                     110
       Training the Shepherd Dog                             113
       Police Dogs                                           115
       The Hunting World and the Use of Dogs                 118
       The Gun and Coursing Dogs of the World                120
       Whippet Dogs and Whippet Racing                       125
       The Sled Dogs of Alaska                               127

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                                 “DOGS
                                 OF ALL
                                NATIONS”


                   will give special displays on the

                Panama-Pacific International Exposition

                         Track and Polo Grounds

                   on _SUNDAY_ afternoons and
                   other special occasions featuring
                   the following UTILITY DOGS:

                         SHEEP DOG TRIALS
                         POLICE DOG TRIALS
                         WAR DOG MANEUVERS
                         AMBULANCE DOG DRILL
                         ARCTIC SLED DOGS
                         WHIPPET RACING
                         PERFORMING DOGS
                         PARADE of the WORLD’S
                         CHAMPION BENCH DOGS

  Dates and other information will be announced later.

            _With eyes upraised, his master’s face to scan;
            The joy, the solace, and the aid of man;
            The rich man’s guardian, the poor man’s friend;
            The only creature faithful to the end._

My twenty-five years’ experience as breeder, exhibitor, trainer and
judge of dogs is at the service of anyone requiring specimens either for
the show bench, for work in the field or for society.

                   ABSOLUTE SATISFACTION GUARANTEED.

Dogs from my kennels are constantly taking leading show bench honors in
England, France, Germany, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, Canada,
and every State in North America.

All sales effected during the Exposition must be made through the office
in the “DOGS OF ALL NATIONS” building, for which an official receipt
will be given.

Specimens purchased from the collection comprising the “DOGS OF ALL
NATIONS” exhibit may be either shipped by express in suitable traveling
crate or taken away on lead, in which event a special pass-out permit
will be required.

References will be supplied, on request, to hundreds of satisfied
clients who have honored me with their patronage.

Banking references as follows:

             Crocker National Bank, San Francisco, Cal.
             New Netherlands Bank, New York, N. Y.
             Ridgewood Trust Co., Ridgewood, N. J.
             London County & Westminster Bank, Woking, Eng.
             Bank of Liverpool, Southport, Eng.

                 Address all communications during 1915

                              W. E. MASON

                         “DOGS OF ALL NATIONS”

                           Exposition Grounds
                          San Francisco, Cal.
                    Phones: Fillmore 7000—Local 175

                  *       *       *       *       *

                            EUROPEAN OFFICE

                    407 Lord Street, Southport, Eng.




                             MOORE’S TOXIN

                              (_Bacterin_)

                          FOR CANINE DISTEMPER

                           Cures and Prevents

This is the original distemper bacterin and nothing else has been
produced that gets the same results in the same way. It has been
thoroughly tested on both sides of the Atlantic for =NINE YEARS=. We are
proud of the verdict of those who use it.

                           _Manufactured by_
                       Middle Mass. Chemical Co.
                        Palmer, Mass., U. S. A.

                            _European Agent_
                              W. E. MASON
                   _407 Lord St., Southport, England_

                           _Canadian Agents_
                            E. G. WEST & CO.
                     _80 George St., Toronto, Ont._




[Illustration]

[Illustration]

                         “FOR YOUR DOG’S SAKE”

                             DR. DELANEY’S

                                VERMILAX


                          SUPREME DOG REMEDIES

                        USED AND RECOMMENDED BY

                     THE BEST KENNELS IN THE WORLD

                                  FOR
                                HUNTING
                                DRAUGHT
                                 RACING
                                 WATCH
                                  SHOW
                                  PET
                                  DOGS

                         “Dogs of All Nations”
                                  AND
                      Dogs of Every Age and Breed

         Blood Purifying Tablets                         $0.50
         Cankered Ear Lotion                               .50
         Chorea Tablets                                    .50
         Condition Tablets                                 .50
         Cough Syrup                                       .50
         Diarrhoea Tablets                                 .50
         Digestive Tablets                                 .50
         Disinfectant and Germicide                        .50
         Distemper Remedy                                 1.00
         Eye Lotion                                        .50
         Fever Tablets                                     .50
         Flea Powder                                       .25
         Gum Set (For Loose Teeth)                         .25
         Kidney Tablets                                    .50
         Liniment                                          .50
         Mange Remedy (Stainless)                         1.00
         Mange Remedy (Standard)                          1.00
         Mouth Wash                                        .50
         Rheumatic Tablets                                 .50
         Shampoo—“Veno” (For Toy Dogs and Puppies)         .50
         Shampoo—Deodorizing (For Large Dogs)              .50
         Skin Cleansing Cream (For Toy Dogs and Puppies)   .50
         Skin Cleanser (For Large Dogs)                    .50
         Soap—Special Cake (For Toy Dogs and Puppies)      .25
         Soap—Cake (For Large Dogs and All Animals)        .25
         Tonic Tablets                                     .50
         VERMILAX (The Supreme Worm Remedy)                .50
         VERMILAX (The Supreme Worm Remedy)               1.00

                     VERMILAX SUPREME DOG REMEDIES

                       ARE ABSOLUTELY UNSURPASSED

Sold during the Exposition at the “=VERMILAX=” Exhibit in the Liberal
Arts Building also at the “DOGS OF ALL NATIONS” Exhibit and by Leading
Drug and Department Stores, Sporting Goods Houses and Pet Shops
Everywhere.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

                           VERMILAX CO., Inc.

                 Dept. D. N., 220 W. 42d St., New York

          (Send for Dr. Delaney’s Valuable FREE Book on Dogs)




[Illustration:

  Irish Wolfhound
]

                                 Toyon

                         Southport St. Patrick

                        Farm raised puppies from
                        the best imported stock
                        usually For Sale.

                             TOYON KENNELS

                         LOS ALTOS, CALIFORNIA




[Illustration]

                             FOR WORMS GIVE

                          CLAYTON’S VERMIFUGE

             Either in Liquid form, Soft Capsules or Pills

The peculiar virtue of Clayton’s Vermifuge is recognized by all dog
fanciers. There is no other vermifuge like it.

CLAYTON’S VERMIFUGE (Liquid) is equally good for dogs of all ages and
breeds, and is especially adapted for very young puppies. The treatment
for worms in puppies should be commenced at 10 days old, as they have
worms soon after birth. (Can be administered in capsules.)

CLAYTON’S VERMIFUGE (Soft) CAPSULES are intended for puppies after they
are six weeks old and for grown dogs.

Where a pill is more easily administered there is nothing better than
Clayton’s Worm Pills. For puppies 6 weeks old and for grown dogs.

Rid your puppies of worms and give them a chance to grow strong and
healthy.

            CLAYTON’S MANGE REMEDY AND CLAYTON’S SKIN LOTION

Are for every form of Skin Disease. They are to destroy all parasites,
heal the skin and promote the growth of the hair.

       CLAYTON’S DISTEMPERINE AND CLAYTON’S DISTEMPERINE TABLETS

Are for all forms of Distemper. You need not fear Distemper when you
have Clayton’s Distemperine or Clayton’s Distemperine Tablets.

                 CLAYTON’S CONDITION PILLS WITH PEPSIN

Are a reliable remedy for all run-down conditions of the nervous system,
or after any constitutional disease. They are especially useful when
convalescing from distemper. They are to make your dog eat and grow
strong and healthy.

            USE CLAYTON’S COOLING DOG WASH AND DISINFECTANT

For Washing your Dog and to Disinfect your Kennel. It is an excellent
disinfectant, deodorizer and germicide.

                  FULL LIST OF CLAYTON’S DOG REMEDIES

            Clayton’s                         Price Postpaid
            Mange Remedy                      $0.50    $0.75
            Skin Lotion                          50       75
            Distemperine                         50       60
            Distemperine Tablets                 50       50
            Condition Pills, Pepsin              50       50
            Blood Purifying and Cooling Pills    50       50
            Digestive Tablets                    50       50
            Laxative Pills                       50       50
            Worm Pills                           50       50
            Tape Worm Expeller                   50       50
            Vermifuge (Liquid)                   50       60
            Vermifuge (Soft Capsules)            50       50
            Canker Lotion                        50       60
            Canker Lotion Tablets                50       50
            Eye Lotion                           50       60
            Eye Lotion Tablets                   50       50
            Fit Remedy                           50       60
            Fit Tablets                          50       50
            Cough Remedy                         50       60
            Sulphur Tablets                      50       50
            Puppy Tonic                          50       60
            Rheumatic Tablets                    50       50
            Diarrhoea Remedy                     50       60
            Diarrhoea Tablets                    50       50
            Cholera Tablets                      50       50
            Goitre Remedy                      1.00     1.00
            Ceoline Dog Wash and Disinfectant    25       35
            Shampoo                              25       30
            Kilflea Soap                         25       30
            Dog Soap                             20       25
            Ceoline Dog Soap                     10       15
            Kilflea Powder                       25       35

Clayton’s Remedies are for sale by all Sporting Goods Houses, Drug
Stores and Bird Stores. Send 2c. stamp for Dr. Clayton’s Treatise on the
Dog, or ask your dealer for one.

                            Manufactured By

             Dr. Geo. W. Clayton, 1810 Wabash Ave., Chicago


                     GLOVER’S IMPERIAL DOG REMEDIES

                   THE PIONEER AMERICAN DOG MEDICINES


                             The Result of
                               35 Years’
                           Experience in the
                              Treatment of
                               Sick Dogs

[Illustration]

                                Sold by
                               Druggists
                                  and
                             Sporting Goods
                                Dealers

                             COMPLETE LIST

                      Distemper Remedy       $1.00
                      Mange Remedy             .50
                      Vermifuge                .50
                      Canker Wash              .50
                      Blood Purifier           .50
                      Tonic                    .50
                      Cough Mixture            .50
                      Fit Remedy               .50
                      Eye Lotion               .50
                      Black Tongue Remedy      .50
                      Condition Pills          .50
                      Digestive Pills          .50
                      Liver Pills              .50
                      Comp. Sulphur Tablets    .50
                      Worm Capsules            .50
                      Tape Worm Capsules       .50
                      Diarrhoea Remedy         .50
                      Liniment                 .50
                      Sore Foot Remedy         .50
                      Kennel and Stable Soap   .25

                     _REFUSE WORTHLESS SUBSTITUTES_

      Book on “DOG DISEASES AND HOW TO FEED,” Free on Application

                         H. CLAY GLOVER, V. S.

          25 Years Veterinarian to the Westminster Kennel Club

           118 West 31st Street      New York City, U. S. A.


                           “BETTIS” AIREDALES

were accepted by the proprietor of the “Dogs of All Nations” Exhibit at
the Panama-Pacific International Exposition, because of their well known
qualities as Hunters, Protectors, Companions and Winners. For years they
have been produced Only from Educated and Winning stock of Fashionable
blood lines. They Win, Work and Please invariably.

                            HY-BORN KENNELS

                      Bettis Airedales Exclusively

                R. L. BETTIS, Owner      FRESNO, CALIF.


                    “PITTSBURGH PERFECT” LAWN FENCES

[Illustration]

The most distinctive lawn fence fabric made. Supplied in styles and
sizes specially adapted to enclose Lawns, Gardens, Estates, Deer Parks,
Cemeteries, etc. Made of tough, strong, durable Open Hearth Wire
genuinely =double galvanized=. All wires electrically welded at the
joints. The strongest, toughest, most durable and economical fence you
can buy. In use all over the world. Sold by dealers everywhere. Write
for Catalogue.


[Illustration]

                         PITTSBURGH STEEL COMPANY
                             PITTSBURGH, PA.

                             BRANCH OFFICES:

           New York Chicago Memphis Duluth San Francisco Dallas

 The largest independent plant in the world manufacturing Nails, Wire and
                                 Fencing


                                AT STUD

                     The Imported Airedale Terrier

                        “Clonmel Master Nobbler”

[Illustration]

                A High Class Dog for High Class Bitches

Airedale puppies for sale. Combining the most classical blood lines of
England and America.

                           TOPCLIFFE KENNELS

                   Property of Miss Edith Chesebrough

                         BURLINGAME, CALIFORNIA




                           A Friendly Warning

                            TO OWNER OF DOGS

Guard against the substitution of inferior foods, said to be “Just as
good as Spratt’s” by insisting upon our name appearing on every package
you purchase. The success of the genuine production has given rise to a
number of imitations—but there are no real substitutes.

                     NOTHING CAN TAKE THE PLACE OF

                             SPRATT’S FOODS

for Dogs, Cats, Poultry, Birds, etc., and in the interest of the health
and well being of your pet, it will pay you to ask for, and insist on
having “SPRATT’S.”

                     SEND STAMP FOR “DOG CULTURE?”

                          SPRATT’S PATENT LTD.

                       Main office and factories

                           NEWARK, NEW JERSEY

                          Pacific Coast Depot

               No. 60 Federal Street, San Francisco, Cal.

                               DEPOTS AT

                            St. Louis, Mo.
                            Cleveland, Ohio
                            Chicago, Ill.
                            Boston, Mass.
                            Montreal, Canada

                           FACTORIES ALSO AT

                            London, England
                            Berlin, Germany

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                          TRANSCRIBER’S NOTES


 1. Silently corrected obvious typographical errors and variations in
      spelling.
 2. Retained archaic, non-standard, and uncertain spellings as printed.
 3. Enclosed italics font in _underscores_.
 4. Enclosed bold font in =equals=.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DOGS OF ALL NATIONS ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
